MATT: Hello everybody, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us
nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons &amp; Dragons. Before we hop into tonight's
episode, let's get through some announcements very
quickly. First and foremost, we have our fantastic
returning sponsor, our friends since the beginning
of Campaign 2, D&amp;D Beyond. Sam!
SAM: D&amp;D Beyond just released-- this is actually
kind of exciting-- just released the new Creatures
section. Users now have a place to add any type of
monster stat block for easy reference during play!
You can add your favorite wild shape or familiar
forms, keep up with your ranger's companion,
summoned creatures, mounts, ferrets-- or what do
we have, a weasel?
LAURA: Yeah!
SAM: Followers and more! You can also track hit
points and customize the name and stats for all of
your creatures! To celebrate, I've crafted a quick
little trivia quiz for Laura! We'll start with
Laura and bounce around. I searched through D&amp;D
Beyond's list of actual familiars listed on their
site. I will name four creatures. One of these is
actually a board game. The other three are actual
D&amp;D familiars. Which is the board game and not a
familiar? A) Boggle, B) Juiblex, C) Pudding King,
D) Unstable Unicorns.
LAURA: Boggle!
SAM: Incorrect. I said, "Which is a board game and
NOT a familiar?" Boggle is also a familiar!
Unstable Unicorns is the correct answer.
LAURA: It's stupid!
SAM: Taliesin, one of these is a West Hollywood
bar--
TALIESIN: Ready!
SAM: Three of these are D&amp;D familiars. Which is
the real bar? The Naughty Pig, the Mantrap, the
Steel Predator, the Cockatrice.
TALIESIN: Which of these is--
SAM: Is a real bar!
TALIESIN: The Naughty Pig.
SAM: Correct!
TALIESIN: I know my West Hollywood bars, man.
LAURA: Oh my god.
SAM: Marisha, one of these is an Australian candy.
The other are beasts on the list. Which is the
real Australian candy? (Australian accent) A
nalfeshnee? Musk stick?
TRAVIS: All of Australia is turning off.
SAM: Ochre jelly? Vegepygmy?
MARISHA: What was the last one?
SAM: Vegepygmy.
TRAVIS: No, that's not a familiar.
MARISHA: What's B?
SAM: Musk stick. You got it correct! It's actually
a candy from Australia!
TRAVIS: Vegepygmy is a familiar?
MATT: Vegepygmy is legit.
SAM: I'm going to skip the next one and go
straight to Travis. Sorry, Liam, you lose. No,
I'll do Liam's, too! One of these is a Kama Sutra
position. The other three are beasts! Which is a
Kama Sutra position? The Flying Snake, the Curled
Flower--
LIAM: The Cold Flower?
SAM: Curled Flower. The Stench Cow, or the Corpse
Flower?
LIAM: Which one is the--
SAM: Kama Sutra's sexy position.
LIAM: Which one is?
SAM: Yeah.
LIAM: Run through those really fast.
SAM: Flying Snake! Curled Flower! Stench Cow!
Corpse Flower!
LIAM: Oh god, too fast.
TRAVIS: You got it, pick one!
LIAM: Corpse Flower. It's the only thing I can
remember. He said it too fast!
SAM: Curled Flower is-- Speed round! I'm still
going! Travis, I'm going to say pairs of names.
One of each is a World Wrestling Entertainment
wrestler, the other is a D&amp;D familiar. Grung or
Mojo Rawley? Say the one that's the wrestler.
Grung or Mojo Rawley?
TRAVIS: Grung.
SAM: No. Manshoon or Fandango?
TRAVIS: Manshoon!
SAM: No. Leucrotta or Lou Albano?
TRAVIS: Lou Albano.
SAM: Correct. Annis hag or Gran Metalik?
TRAVIS: Gran Metalik.
SAM: Correct, and one more: Giff or Mirt? They're
both beasts!
MATT: I don't think Mirt would appreciate being
called a beast.
SAM: I don't know what any of these things are!
MATT: But a familiar, perhaps. Thank you, Sam, and
thank you, D&amp;D Beyond.
SAM: I did a lot of research on D&amp;D Beyond today.
It was fascinating to scroll through the list of
beasts and familiars!
TALIESIN: I'm especially impressed you found the
list of West Hollywood bars on D&amp;D Beyond. That's
an obscure crowd.
MATT: It's amazing the reach the program has now.
Thank you, D&amp;D Beyond, for your sponsorship. Gotta
catch 'em all. A couple of other updates: the
latest episode of Between the Sheets starring our
fantastic Liam O'Brien right here is now available
on the Critical Role YouTube. That's
youtube.com/criticalrole.
MATT: Make sure to check out this coming Monday on
our Twitch channel, twitch.tv/criticalrole, at
7:00pm Pacific to see the next episode of Between
the Sheets with our fantastic Sam Riegel.
SAM: I'm on this show?
MATT: You're up the next week, yeah, get ready.
SAM: Did they pay me?
MATT: That would be a conversation to have with
the Creative Director.
SAM: Brian has to pay me to be anywhere within 500
feet of him. It's the rule.
MATT: I think legally you're not supposed to be?
Check that out on Monday, 7:00pm Pacific on our
Twitch channel, and the next episode of All Work
No Play airs tomorrow, also at
twitch.tv/criticalrole, at 7:00pm Pacific time.
You get to watch these two awesome gentlemen here,
as well as the special guest, Stephanie Sheh.
SAM: We're doing the rage room tomorrow.
ALL: Rage room!
SAM: It's going to be fun.
LIAM: Got almost all of it out.
MATT: (slow motion talking)
TRAVIS: Benadryl.
MATT: So there's that. Anybody else have any other
announcements?
LAURA: The pre-orders for the Keyfish t-shirt
start shipping tomorrow. Outside of that, just go
to the shop. Y'all know the drill.
MARISHA: It's fine, we're gods!
MATT: All right then. Without further ado, I say
it's time we go ahead and dial in for tonight's
episode of Critical Role.
[TV static, click]
[groovy Critical Role theme]
MATT: And welcome back.
TALIESIN: Never an accident.
MATT: No, never! Last we left off: The Mighty
Nein, following their thread of information, in
pursuit of the source of the strange sphere that
Fjord had come into the possession of-- that
seemed to tie in some way, shape or form to the
magical powers he had been slowly learning to
control and manifest-- led you to southward to the
Menagerie Coast where you commandeered a ship
named the Mist, which you then renamed the
Mistake, hired a crew and made your way
south-southeast towards the island of Urukaxl to
follow the apparent source of this note that
seemed to have some information about where it was
from and where it may go. Upon approaching, you
were greeted by a much larger ship, which had shot
a warning shot across the bow and demanded you to
come meet the captain on their deck. You there met
Captain Avantika, who had given you the options of
either proving yourselves beneath her and her crew
by helping them, putting yourself in danger at her
behest, or they would weigh your corpses down with
rocks within the nearby bay amongst the reefs. You
agreed to give into these demands and an evening's
stay within the ship known as the Squalleater. A
little bit of thievery went into the cargo hold of
the ship while Fjord had been called to the
captain's quarters, where the two of you
discovered that you had something in common. You
both appeared to have been, from her words, the
chosen of Uk'otoa, an ancient entity referred to
as the leviathan that was a historical creation of
Zehir, the Cloaked Serpent, before it was banished
along with the rest of the gods in the Calamity
and following Divergence. Now the captain, seeing
herself as the chosen and seeing you in a similar
state -- this kismet was grappled onto quite
strongly by her-- sent you to bed with the
excitement of this travel, of which you would
embark upon in the next day.
MATT: Upon waking, you found that Jamedi, a hired
adventurer and dungeoneer who was set out to scope
the island and find this temple, this supposed
structure that was built in honor of Uk'otoa long
ago and had since been retaken by followers of the
Cloaked Serpent. Jamedi returned, finding the rest
of the path too dangerous, but had managed to
locate the whereabouts of this temple. Now you've
gathered your things, you left the Squalleater
onto a couple of skiffs, rowed yourself onto the
white beach shores of Urukaxl, and as you all step
across the long beach towards the line of trees
that makes the jungle, you make your way into this
mysterious wooded area. Mighty Nein, welcome to
the jungle.
TRAVIS: (singing) Welcome to the jungle!
MATT: (singing) You're gonna die! (spoken) As
Jamedi begins pushing forward into this, I would
like to, one, have a marching order.
LAURA: That fast, huh?
MATT: I mean, you guys are going into dangerous
territory.
TRAVIS: I'll be up front.
SAM: Yasha's first. We're all 60 feet behind her.
MATT: Fjord's up front.
TRAVIS: Yep.
LAURA: I'll be behind him.
MATT: Avantika's going to ride up with Fjord.
MARISHA: I'll be behind Jester.
MATT: Jamedi's going to be scouting a little bit
ahead. Nott, where are you?
SAM: I guess I'll scout with Jamedi.
TRAVIS and LIAM: Yeah!
MARISHA: I'll be behind Jester, yeah, or with
Jester.
MATT: Yasha will hold up the rear from a defensive
standpoint. Caduceus, Caleb?
TALIESIN: I'll be toward the back, I guess.
LIAM: I will walk behind Beauregard.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Also, question: What is the temperature like
here on this island? Are we tropical at this point?
MATT: You are very much in tropical weather. It is
warm, it is humid, and, even within maybe ten
minutes of walking into the jungle, you can feel
the sweat beginning to gather at the edges of your
hair and the back of your coat.
LIAM: Caleb would then have taken his coat off and
twisted it up and tied it to the back of his coat,
so he's just with the holstered books and his
shirt sleeves rolled up at this point since it's
so hot.
MATT: So you're leaving the coat behind?
LIAM: No, I just tied it onto the back of my pack.
MATT: Ok, gotcha. Cool.
LIAM: Rolled it up like a carpet.
MATT: You begin to step through the soft floor of
the island jungle, each footstep coming with a
sort of spongy pressure before it hits hard earth,
rock, or just compressed compost and soft
vegetation. I need you all to roll a stealth check
as a group as you press forward.
LAURA: Can I cast Pass Without a Trace so everyone
around me gets plus ten?
TALIESIN: Yeah, might be a good idea.
TRAVIS: She's nice in the middle for a good
spread.
SAM: May I put up my cloaky thing?
MATT: Of course.
TALIESIN: I'm also going to--
MARISHA: (sneezes)
ALL: Bless you!
TRAVIS: First roll with the new CR die!
LIAM: Gesundheit.
TALIESIN: I'm going to politely ask the local
greenery and let them know that we're going to be
coming through and that we're going to try not to
disturb them so long as nothing disturbs us.
SAM: Did you cast Pass Without a Trace?
LAURA: Yes, I did!
TRAVIS: Do you do that out loud?
TALIESIN: Yeah, have to.
TRAVIS: The local greenery?
TALIESIN: Well, I mean, I got to talk to a couple
of trees and let them know that we're coming through.
LAURA: I'm going to give the Blessing of the
Trickster to Fjord.
TRAVIS: I don't need it, but okay.
TALIESIN: Thank god for that plus ten because that
was terrible.
MATT: Avantika and Jamedi. Got it. All right,
Caduceus.
TALIESIN: 15.
MATT: Good.
LAURA: 32.
SAM: We're all within the--
MATT: 30-foot radius, right?
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: Okay, 24.
LIAM: 26.
MARISHA: 29.
TRAVIS: 25.
MATT: I'll roll for Yasha as well. Natural 18, all
right. You guys ever so quietly disappear into the
jungle brush without issue. The hanging vines and
heavy palm fronds around you heavily obscuring
your procession deeper into this--
TRAVIS: Caduceus, can I ask you: what do you hear
when you converse?
TALIESIN: Shh.
TRAVIS: (whispering) Yeah, I'm sorry.
TALIESIN: If you want to hear it, you have to
listen for it. You hear that?
TRAVIS: No.
TALIESIN: What're you hearing, then?
TRAVIS: Nothing.
TALIESIN: Exactly, yeah. It's good. All right.
LIAM: (whispering) They're not saying anything.
TRAVIS: Oh.
MATT: Continuing onward. Who's keeping watch on
this?
SAM: Me, and--
TALIESIN: I'm keeping an eye out.
SAM: Who am I out there with? Cosko?
MATT: Jamedi.
TALIESIN: Oh, and Frumpkin.
TRAVIS: Yeah, and Caduceus please.
TALIESIN: I'm keeping an eye around as well.
MATT: All right. Go ahead and roll perception for your
vicinity. You guys are rolling perception for the
path ahead of you.
SAM: Three.
TRAVIS: What the fuck? Plus?
SAM: Plus zero.
TRAVIS: Why are you rolling perception checks?
SAM: I'm in the front. Makes sense!
MARISHA: Did you get a haircut?
SAM: No, I just styled it a little bit differently.
MARISHA: It looks good!
SAM: Oh, that's nice!
TALIESIN: It might have been the loss of your
Samson-like powers.
MATT: So anyway.
Bring it in. Pushing forward, you look ahead and
it's just endless trees and hanging vines and
heavy roots in the ground. You feel nice and
confident in the fact that nothing is catching
your attention. A hand touches your shoulder and
turns you to the right. It's Jamedi, who goes,
"Shh. Look at this here. This was the first on
my--" He pulls a small piece of paper and is
taking notes. "I have not looked further within,
but this was the first marker to our entry
"inside." As he points over to show you, about a
hundred or so feet off, partially obscured by one
of the nearby heavy fronds, a dilapidated
driftwood shack, with a frond-thatched roof. He
looks back to the rest of you as you begin to
approach. "This is the first marker. Do you have a
"need to stop or do we press on?"
SAM: You've been past here before?
MATT: "I've walked through but did not stop.
I do not know if it is safe or not."
SAM: Maybe we should go investigate just in
case there's an early warning system or something,
and there's someone in there watching us?
TRAVIS: Yeah. Caduceus, Nott, want to check it out?
SAM: Us?!
TRAVIS: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Sure.
TRAVIS: Such a good idea.
TALIESIN: That is a really good idea.
SAM: All right. I'll take a big swig and go
towards it.
MATT: Okay. Jamedi begins to move,
and Avantika puts her hand out and stops Jamedi,
and goes, "Terribly sorry, but you are more
important on this. You two, you can do this
"without him?"
SAM: Yes we can, Captain.
MATT: "Very well. We await your return."
SAM: We're supposed to be listening to her,
or something. I don't know.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: The two of you tread on. As you approach,
you get a good look at it. It looks like this hut has been
untouched in a long while. A lot of the overgrowth
in the jungle has reclaimed the base of the wood.
A lot of it appears to be driftwood, or ramshackle
planks that have been carved from trees that have
fallen over in the vicinity, or possibly scavenged
from shipwrecks that have washed ashore. It is a
mismatch of different types of wood and cobbled
materials, but it is a shack. It's probably no
more than ten-foot by ten-foot, it's not extremely
large. You do see a half-rotted sheet of some sort
of thick material that blocks the doorway. You see
some holes that have been eaten through it.
SAM: Want me to go knock, or you?
TALIESIN: Well, we have a choice here.
You're harder to see, I suppose, so there's that.
SAM: All right.
TALIESIN: I'll come up with you, though.
SAM: Okay. I'm going to sneak up and peak through the
curtain.
MATT: Okay. You get to the curtain and
the material is a thick-- you can see that it
probably once belonged to a sail or of a heavy
tarp that's long rotted and mildewed, and as you
put your hand to it and tug on it, elements of the
threads separate a little bit. Peering inside, you
see it's mostly empty. There's a simple cot,
there's a chair, a mildewed leather coat that
appears to be half folded over and thrown in the
corner, and a small box up on the far end of the
table in the room that's just open; there's no lid
to it. The whole room smells faintly of rot.
MARISHA, TRAVIS, and LAURA: (pigeon cooing)
MATT: Shh.
TALIESIN: I'm going to poke
up and put my head in as well. There's no trap
doors? Nowhere where anybody could be
hiding?
SAM: I can look for traps.
MATT: You can make an investigation check
if you want to go check the interior.
TALIESIN: I was just curious
immediately if there was anything I notice; I
wasn't going to--
SAM: I'll look around for traps
on the floor and stuff.
TALIESIN: I was going to look around. Actually, if
you're doing that, I'll look around the outside to
see if anybody's watching us.
MATT: Okay. Make a perception check.
SAM: Investigation?
MATT: Yep.
SAM: 13.
TALIESIN: 27.
MATT: Glancing around the space, you see half of
your party hiding, mostly, not too far off, maybe
a hundred feet from the edge. Looking around you,
you notice there are a few animals that are up in
the top of the trees, leaping. Looks to be some
sort of monkey-type creature, small, leaping from
branch to branch. You see a few colorful jungle
birds that are up in the higher elements of the
tree tops. At the moment, no noticeable dangerous
figures that could be lurking nearby.
TALIESIN: Nothing's really watching.
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: Looking about, touching the floor, you don't
notice any trap doors. You find one plank that
feels loose. You pull it up, and it's just dirt.
Yeah, it's just the table, the cot, the open box.
SAM: Then I'll use Mage Hand to reach up for that
box and grab it off the shelf.
MATT: Okay. You pull the box off the shelf and
pull it over. It has a bunch of old, dry-rotted
navigation tools. You can see a wooden handled
magnifying glass. You can see a piece that held an
instrument that was used for charting paths along
maps, but the wooden elements of these have warped
over time and dried out and there are metallic
bits are rusted a bit.
SAM: Does the magnifying glass look like it might
still work, maybe?
MATT: It could still work. The glass hasn't been
touched; the housing for it has rusted a little.
SAM: I'll grab that. Mr. Clay, should we go in
further, or what do you think?
TALIESIN: I don't know. Has the bed been slept in?
Does it seem like someone's been here recently or
is this abandoned, do you think?
SAM: Why don't you go check it out?
TALIESIN: What? Oh! Well, I'll put my head in.
MATT: Roll an investigation check as you inspect
the bed.
TALIESIN: 16.
MATT: Looking at the cot, it's a simp--
TALIESIN: 12, sorry.
MATT: 12. Okay.
SAM: You don't see the cot.
MATT: It's a simple cot. It looks like the
material bows in the middle where somebody
would've slept previously. It's stained from
weather over time. Looking up at the thatched
roof, it looks like there's probably been a few
storms that have battered it enough to the point
where it leaks through, and the place itself
doesn't really keep any of the rain at bay, what
manages to filter down through the treetops
nearby, at least. As you push on it, the material
tears a bit, and beneath it you see a smaller
chest of some kind.
TALIESIN: Huh.
SAM: What?
TALIESIN: Does look dangerous to you?
SAM: The chest?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
SAM: I can come see if it's trappied.
TALIESIN: Sure. I'm going to take a step back.
SAM: I'll Mage Hand check for traps.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Wow, so far today, I've rolled two threes and
three fours.
MATT: Buddy!
LAURA: Switch that fucking dice out!
SAM: No, it's going to pay off.
TRAVIS: Just think, slot machine!
SAM: 13.
MATT: The chest is locked; it does not appear to
be trapped.
SAM: Okay. I'll open it. It's not trapped, for
sure.
TALIESIN: Be my guest.
SAM: Well, that's better. 24 total.
MATT: There you go!
TRAVIS: Ding ding ding ding!
TALIESIN: Cherry, cherry, cherry.
MARISHA: Jackpot.
MATT: You go ahead. It opens up; nothing seems to
happen. It's relatively small; it's maybe six by
four inches in size. You slowly pull it open,
moving the cot out of the way. Looking inside,
immediately you see a small, golden statue, maybe
three inches tall, that is a relatively simple
carving; it's not extremely detailed. The relief
looks like the head of a cobra with the hood open
and the jaw open with fangs drawn. Next to that
you see three approximately gold piece-sized
rubies. They're that big around, but they're
fairly thin.
LAURA: Ooh.
SAM: I'll grab them all!
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: Ruby buttons!
MATT: You pull them out. As you do, the weight
that's been distributed outside of the chest
causes it to slide forward. At that point, you
notice that there is a cord attached to the base
of the chest. The weight was holding it in place.
As you remove the objects, the chest slides back
against the wall as whatever cable is attached to
it goes through a loop through the ceiling and you
feel shifting as a large urn of some kind that is
currently set up inside a thatch roof tips over,
and begins to just release a payload on top of
both of you--
SAM: Maybe it's just a silly prank, it's
water.
MATT: It looks to be a cluster of
poisonous snakes, dozens of them just stumble down
from above. What do you guys do?
SAM: What do we do?
LAURA: Leap out of the way!
SAM: I mean, yeah, I guess I will try to not get
hit by the cluster of snakes.
MATT: Go ahead and make a dexterity check.
MARISHA: You got any of that rogue shit?
MATT: Dexterity saving throw.
SAM: Save?
MATT: Yes.
TRAVIS: (hissing) Save friends!
SAM: 23 to save.
MATT: You duck out of the way to the back,
get your crossbow ready, and look down. The snakes
hit the ground with a sludgy slap. All of these
snakes have long been dead, mostly decomposed.
SAM: They didn't feed the trap snakes?
MATT: Apparently whoever was been
handling this hut hasn't been here for a while.
LAURA: Aw, that's sad.
TALIESIN: Well, that's just sad, that's, yeah.
SAM: Do you want them to decompose?
TALIESIN: I mean, that'd be nice, wouldn't it?
SAM: Maybe?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'll see if I can start the muck
going in here and maybe get a nice little
indoor terrarium, I don't know what will happen.
MATT: Sure, they're still mostly
decomposed. But the weather, at least the
way it was kept up in there, wasn't conducive to
any heavy jungle fungus, it seems. But you harry
that along. You, through your cantrip, manage to
watch as these dull blue and gray spores begin to
apparate in a row across the pile of somewhat
sludgy snake remains.
TALIESIN: That's already better.
SAM: Were they real rubies or was it all
a ruse to get me to pull on them?
MATT: They appear to be.
SAM: Do I have them?
MATT: You have them. You have
everything that's in the
chest, you have the gold idol, the small snake
head idol, and you have these three gold
piece-shaped rubies. They're about that thick, and
that big around. Make an investigation check.
SAM: Me?
MATT: Yes. It would be perception, actually.
SAM: 12
MATT: You look at the rubies
as you're inspecting them and they have little
scratches at the edges, it's like slight-- I
wouldn't say imperfections, it's not like they
were originally there. But you can see small
grooves or lines along the outer edge where
something metal or pointy was used to scrape or picked.
SAM: Okay.
TRAVIS: This is good. This is some Uncharted
shit right now.
TALIESIN: There are some maps in with the compass--
just some tools? All right.
MATT: Nothing else. Just a few things left behind,
and no sign of who once built or at least lived
in this space nearby. But they haven't been
here for a while, whoever they were.
SAM: Let's go tell the others about everything
that we found, except for all the rubies and
gold. I'm kidding, we'll tell them about it.
TALIESIN: All right, I-- you know, okay,
sure. We can do that.
SAM: Unless you're cool with not telling them,
because that's cool with me, too.
TALIESIN: Telling who what?
SAM: All right, you're confusing.
LAURA: What did you find, what did you find?
SAM: I found those beautiful eyes of yours.
I can't-- I found two rubies.
LAURA: Two whole rubies?
SAM: Yes.
LAURA: Whoa, what did they look like?
SAM: Like this.
LAURA: Ooh!
TALIESIN: It'd look even better with the golden
snake thing. I mean the whole thing comes together nicely.
TRAVIS: What golden snake?
SAM: Oh, there's a golden snake, I forgot.
LAURA: Ooh!
TRAVIS: Is it just a cobra head by itself, or is there
also a body?
MATT: No, it's just a head, about an inch below where
the jaw opens. It's about three inches tall altogether.
LAURA: Is it like our little mini Yasha bust?
MATT: Kind of, yeah! Only with no
torso. It's just like a snake head that's curled
up, and it's only from about there to where the
mouth is.
LAURA: I try to feed the ruby to the snake head.
LIAM: May I have a look at this one?
Not the rubies.
LAURA: Do I see anything cool about the rubies?
Do I also see the little (scratching)?
MATT: You do also notice the small scrapes, yes.
LIAM: Are there any runes on this
thing, does it seem arcane in nature?
MATT: It does not appear to have any runes inscripted on
it. There's no language carved or pressed into the
mold. It looks to be like it was sculpted not by a
master artist or sculptor. Some of the details are
a little loose and bleed a bit: where the mouth
and the teeth are some of them are a little bent
or off-kilter. It looks like it was more of a
passion project than a fine piece of craftsmanship.
LIAM: Yeah, how does everyone feel about a
ten-minute breather here? I sit down and unholster
my book and begin to cast Identify as a ritual.
MARISHA: Hey, can you do that on multiple things
at a time?
LIAM: No. One at a time.
MARISHA: That seems excessive.
SAM: What do you have that you want to identify?
LIAM: Do you have a quicker way?
MARISHA: Just a thing that was given to me.
LAURA: What thing was given to you?
MARISHA: A feather from Nila, forever ago.
LIAM: It's only ten minutes.
SAM: You don't trust her?
LAURA: Who's Nila?
MARISHA: I don't know, I'm just saying it might be
magical.
TALIESIN: Magic feather.
MARISHA: Magic feather. Maybe it makes me fly.
TALIESIN: Maybe it makes you fly, maybe it makes
you molt. There's all sorts of things feathers
could do.
MARISHA: Oh that's right, you didn't meet Nila.
LAURA: Nuh-uh.
MARISHA: Yeah, she looked like Caduceus.
TALIESIN: She was really nice.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: We didn't look anything alike, but yeah
she was very nice.
MARISHA: Oh sorry.
TALIESIN: I'm much taller.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we can take ten minutes, we'll set
out a little perimeter just to make sure we
deflect any unwanted--
LAURA: I mean if Avantika thinks it's okay. Does
Captain Avantika think it's okay for us to take
ten minutes?
MATT: Captain Avantika crosses her arms and
impatiently goes "Whatever it takes if you think
"it will give us there safer. I trust you and your
specialties."
LAURA: Okay.
SAM: Hey is there any benefit to showing-- I
whisper-- is there any benefit to showing
Captain Avantika that letter we found that she
wrote?
LAURA: Hmm, we should ask Fjord before we do
that.
SAM: All right. What's Fjord doing right now?
(laughter)
SAM: (yelling) Hey Fjord!
TRAVIS: Huh?
SAM: (yelling) Fjord! (spoken) I whisper.
(laughter)
SAM: Is there any benefit to showing Captain
Avantika the letter that I think she wrote?
TRAVIS: Why would we do that?
SAM: I don't know. That's why I'm asking. I'm a
simple goblin. I don't know the world weary ways
of a sailor.
TRAVIS: You certainly could. I don't see what harm
it could bring.
LAURA: I'm still picturing you in the stripy
sailor outfit.
TRAVIS: Sure, go for it.
SAM: No, I'll just hang on to it. If she ever is
like, I don't know. If we ever need it, we got it!
MARISHA: I walk over. Hey, are we whispering?
LAURA: Shh. We're whispering.
MARISHA: Oh sorry. Sorry, we're whispering.
SAM: Never mind, we were just talking about this
letter, but don't show Avantika. We can use it to
copy her handwriting and write a check.
MARISHA: You never show people their stolen mail.
SAM: Oh, of course, I should have asked you
first!
MARISHA: Don't. Absolutely not. Keep that shit on
lock.
TRAVIS: He's rolling dice, you guys. Is the shack
large enough to house our entire?
MATT: Not comfortably, by any means.
TRAVIS: We'll kind of--
LAURA: We'll be quiet, we'll just stay still and
look around.
MATT: In this ten minutes, the blanketed heat and
humidity this jungle tends to hold in is
uncomfortable for those of you more used to the
northern elements of this continent.
LIAM: Yeah, this sucks.
MATT: The sweat is definitely collecting beneath
all of your armor and clothing, pooling in areas
you hadn't expected. Your hair is matted against
your face, the insects are starting to find their
way to you as the scent of sweaty humanoid draws
them nearby, occasionally being bit here and
there. You finish casting Identify. This is not
magical, it doesn't have any magical properties.
It seems to be just an idol, it looks like it was
attached to something in the past, but it's
probably literally worth its weight in gold.
LIAM: Nott, here's your toy back.
SAM: Thank you.
TRAVIS: I have a question for you, Matt. Is it
really just us and Avantika and Jamedi?
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: And that's it?
MARISHA: I scan the forest. Are we being
followed?
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: Fuck, balls, shit, six.
MATT: Looks clear.
MARISHA: So foggy.
TRAVIS: Yeah, that's the humidity. I walk over to
Avantika and say: Might I ask, you said your men
are dedicated to this cause as well. How much do
you share with them?
MATT: "I share what is needed. I share with them
the elements of the dreams and visions I've been
"given. For me it is one thing to have a loyal
crew; it is another to have a crew that has faith
"in you beyond being just captain. I do not want a
mutiny, and what's more effective than someone
"that thinks that not only are you a proper
captain, but you are the link to their god?"
TRAVIS: Very effective.
MATT: "There are ranging levels of belief, maybe,
but I think with the time we spend together and
"the willingness to understand the possibilities of
having a captain with such capabilities at their
"disposal, that-- well, riches are not that far off
on the horizon, eh?"
TRAVIS: Blind belief is quite remarkable. I'm
assuming you've shown them things to garner some
level of expectation of your abilities?
MATT: "Oh, do not misunderstand, I myself have
gutted and cut down dozens of men who have
"attempted to take my position."
TRAVIS: I don't doubt it for a moment.
MATT: "Speaking of which," and she removes her
dagger and rapier and looks about and you can see
beautiful weapons, very well made and very well
kept. In fact, most of her equipment that she has,
you can see her fiddling with occasionally to
adjust and clean things as she moves through.
There's a very forceful intent to make sure
everything is properly placed and well taken care
of on her person. She looks about and goes, "And
as much as we are keeping an eye on us ahead, I am
"still keeping and eye on all of you, of course."
TRAVIS: I would expect nothing less.
MATT: "Because, while I would like to believe this
new-found kinship could make for some very
"incredible possibilities in the future, you cross
me and this blade will find your heart faster than
"anything you've seen move."
TRAVIS: Let's hope it doesn't come to that.
MATT: "I hope not either." She reaches out and
pokes your nose and turns around.
MARISHA: She booped you. Nope.
TRAVIS: She just gets a finger full of sweat.
LIAM: Was all of that for all to hear or are they
off a bit?
MATT: They were off a bit, away from everybody.
TRAVIS: Are we satisfied?
SAM: Let's go, let's keep going. Oh, what?
LIAM: Yeah, I'm good. Break time over.
TRAVIS: All right.
MATT: "All right. Jamedi?" "Of course." They begin
falling into the same positions, with both Jamedi
and Nott taking point. Everybody make another
stealth check, please.
MARISHA: Another stealth check.
LAURA: Pass Without a Trace still going? It goes
for how long?
MATT: It lasts for an hour.
LAURA: Okay, yeah.
MATT: So yeah, it's still going for a bit.
LAURA: Oh, Blessing, who needs a Blessing?
MARISHA: (pigeon cooing)
MATT: Technically it's still on Fjord.
TRAVIS: I'll take it. Is that advantage? Better.
21.
MATT: 21? Okay.
MARISHA: 19.
LIAM: 29.
SAM: 29.
LAURA: 22.
TALIESIN: 17.
MATT: Okay. All doing pretty damn well. Continuing
to coast forward for the next hour, hour and a
half or so, following Jamedi's path. You can see
him pulling out notes here and there and looking
for different things, and occasionally he'll come
upon a heavy palm tree or jungle tree that he's
marked with a blade and he's keeping tabs on his
marks to follow his path back to where he
originally found his way. Along the way, the
insects are getting really obnoxious. The buzzing
itself becoming this low, droning, ever-present
hum, but the bites are getting extremely
obnoxious. Jamedi acknowledging, once he starts
seeing it more and more, goes, "I did not find
"them a problem before. Perhaps they seem to enjoy
your flavors more than mine."
MARISHA: Ew.
LAURA: I'm really tasty
TRAVIS: And sweet.
TALIESIN: Are the insects really not bothering him
at all?
MATT: They're not bothering him really, it seems.
TALIESIN: Just out of idle curiosity--
SAM: Is he a human?
MATT: He's human.
TALIESIN: I'm going to very quickly cast Eyes of
the Grave.
TRAVIS: Of the what?
TALIESIN: Anything undead within 60 feet is going
to glow and I'm going to get a little glow off
anything that registers as undead.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: What the fuck?
SAM: Beauregard starts glowing.
MATT: You--
MARISHA: Twist!
MATT: You get a very faint undead aura emanating
from Jamedi.
(gasping)
TRAVIS: You slick motherfucker.
MARISHA: Still a twist!
TRAVIS: Really? Out of the fucking blue.
LAURA: He's good.
SAM: Do you share this knowledge with anyone?
TALIESIN: At some point when I can get to Fjord
quietly, at some point.
MATT: All right. Well, first off, I need everyone
to make a constitution saving throw.
MARISHA: Why? Because it's so hot?
MATT and TRAVIS: Just make one.
MARISHA: Jeez, that was so close.
TRAVIS: 20.
MARISHA: Nine.
TRAVIS and LAURA: Nein!
LAURA: Is that back?
LIAM: Natural 20.
SAM: Natural 12.
LAURA: 12.
TALIESIN: Natural 20.
MATT: All righty! Not bad. Good spread, guys.
Continuing to press on.
TRAVIS: Somebody cast something, right? Does that
mean somebody cast something?
LAURA: Yeah, it's Jamedi.
MARISHA: Is it just so hot? What's happening? Is
it bugs?
TALIESIN: I'm going to crawl up to Fjord in the
line at some point. Been keeping my eye out,
getting the lay of the land and Jamedi is not
quite alive.
TRAVIS: I'm sorry, did you say not quite--
TALIESIN: It's not quite alive.
MARISHA: Am I close enough to where I can overhear
this?
MATT: No.
TALIESIN: I don't think it's an appropriate moment
to bring something like that up, but it's worth--
TRAVIS: Do you detect anything sinister?
TALIESIN: Yeah, it's not quite alive.
TRAVIS: Yeah, that's inherent, sure. Right.
TALIESIN: If anything, I feel like I'm exercising
an enormous amount of willpower just not to-- I
mean, just doesn't seem like we're in-- there's a
good advantage to dealing with this now. But,
yeah, there's something weird there.
TRAVIS: Thank you for letting me know. I hope
you'll keep an eye on it for us.
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm keeping an eye on it. Yeah.
TRAVIS: All right.
LIAM: I would also say, as we're tromping through,
that I would push forward and try to catch up with
Jamedi, momentarily. Oh jeez, what is that?
MARISHA: Sorry.
LIAM: Excuse me, two questions for you.
MATT: Looks over his shoulder at you.
LIAM: What's that? How much further? A day's
travel or more than one day until we reach our destination?
MATT: "With a full group like this, and trying to
be as quiet as possible. I give us about maybe one
"day. There will be a night of camping along the
way."
LIAM: And did you encounter any kind of threats?
MATT: "There are dangerous things in this jungle,
but it is easy to keep out of sight as one man.
"This many? Well, not as much."
LIAM: Anything specific that we should be on guard
for or prepared for?
MATT: "There are lizardfolk that exist on the
outskirts of this island."
LIAM: You mentioned that.
MATT: "They call the rivers, streams and the
inlets home. Then there are the people of scale
"and fang, the snake-folk that exist further in
near this temple. Variations of their strange
"physical--" What are you guys doing over there?
SAM: Trying to open candy.
MATT: How about we hold off? Congratulations.
TALIESIN: That was sort of my fault. I apologize.
MATT: "The people that have built around this
temple, their variations in how their worship--
"the boons of this long-gone snake god they worship
seems to apparate on their person in different
"ways. I've seen some with heads that are full of
serpent features, patches of scales, yellow eyes,
"as well as some with limbs themselves transformed
into snake-like forms. It is stuff of nightmares."
LAURA: Like their arms but their legs are just--
LIAM: You avoided them, you did not tangle with
them yourself.
MATT: "No, that is not the work I do. I am not a
fighter by any means. My job is to not be seen, to
"infiltrate, recover, and expedite my exit."
LIAM: Makes sense. I cast Mage Armor right in
front of him on myself. Thank you. See you later.
I'm going back to my earlier position.
MATT: All right. Continuing forward for the next
few hours or so, the heat is getting heavier and
heavier as the afternoon sky now greets you. You
find yourself stopping to eat and drink water
along the way with what supplies you have
available to you. The next few hours or so as it
begins to get darker and darker--
LAURA: I have a question.
MATT: Yes?
LAURA: With my medicine stuff, would I know
anything that would help get rid of bugs and
stuff? That would keep bugs away from me?
MATT: It's possible. Make a nature check.
LAURA: Oh no, a natural one.
MATT: You have no clue.
TALIESIN: Bugs! How do they work?
MATT: Not a whole lot of jungle insects in or
around Nicodranas, unfortunately. Nothing catches
your attention necessarily.
LIAM: You said it's also darker now? As I chew on
some liquorice root.
MATT: Yes, it's getting steadily darker as you
guys move your way through.
SAM: Were there any flowers on our journey?
MATT: Were there any what?
SAM: Flowers. Did we pass any flowers?
MATT: There are a number of jungle flowers that
you pass.
SAM: I'm going to pick some as we go.
MATT: Sure, all right. Most of the ones you come
across are like a dull pink in color that fade to
a green at the base. It's not a vibrant pink, just
enough of that whitish red crossover to appear. A
lot of them grow along the base of the roots of
some of these jungle trees and you collect a few
handfuls of them. Okay. Yes?
MARISHA: I go over to Fjord while we're taking a
break. Hey, did you find anything out from
Avantika? About, you know, shit that you guys have
in common?
TRAVIS: No, I asked if she shared with her men her
passions and all the details that she knows and
all the knowledge. I thought maybe she might covet
that, but it seems like she's quite forthcoming.
She's trying to build a following, like a zealot
almost. You know, build believers out of her crew.
MARISHA: Does she believe it, though?
TRAVIS: Yeah. She's convincing if she's a liar. I
think she genuinely wants to summon forth this thing.
MARISHA: But does she believe that she's a zealot,
like connected to some god.
TRAVIS: That she's the chosen? Yeah.
MARISHA: How are you feeling from last night?
Seemed like you had a rough night.
TRAVIS: No, I'm fine. Fine. Rested. REM sleep is
some of the best, so you know. I feel energized.
Jazzed. Excited to continue on.
MARISHA: All right. Did you ever read any horror
stories as a kid or did you and your friends tell
horror stories? Spooky things?
TRAVIS: Ghost stories? Yeah.
MARISHA: You know how there's always a time where
the narrator stops, lets your imagination run wild
with what happens?
TRAVIS: Yep.
MARISHA: I just wanted to say. People might have
ideas and thoughts, and I'm trying to look out for
you because we said we'd have each other's backs.
Sometimes the less you say, the more people's
minds like to fill in the blanks. From what I've
learned, generally, what's in people's heads is
worse than the reality of the situation.
TRAVIS: Wow. Do you want to tell me what's in
people's heads?
MARISHA: I mean, look, we've seen you do some
weird, fucked up shit, right?
TRAVIS: Admittedly.
MARISHA: So any time you're unsure it's going to
make other people even more unsure, with a layer
of suspicion. It's like a tiramisu of confusion.
TRAVIS: Well, I admit that I'm not sure about a
lot of this. No pressure, right?
MARISHA: No pressure.
TRAVIS: I will try to fill in as many details as I
can.
MARISHA: Let's go fight some snake people.
TRAVIS: Totes.
MARISHA and TRAVIS: Yeah!
LIAM: While that is going on, I walk over and
stand next to Caduceus and say: Hey. Hello, would
you hang out with me for a moment?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LIAM: Excellent, let's stand right here. I
casually pull out the wire and I cast Message to
Nott. Nott, would you please go, I need you to
speak to Avantika and Jamedi together for a
moment, please?
SAM: You need me to speak to Avantika and Jamedi?
LAURA: What are you saying?
SAM: Sorry, what?
LAURA: Are you talking to yourself?
SAM: Oh. (whispering) I'm on the phone.
LAURA: Oh.
LIAM: Ja.
SAM: Recast. What do you need me to say? You can
respond to this message.
LIAM: Just distract them, please.
SAM: Oh!
LAURA: What did he say?
SAM: Got it.
LAURA: What is it? What did he say?
SAM: (whispering) I'm on the phone right now,
okay? I'll get to you when I'm done.
LAURA: Okay.
SAM: (normal volume) Okay. That was Caleb. He
wants me to go distract Avantika and Jumanji for a
moment. Do you want to come help me?
LAURA: Okay!
SAM: What should we do?
LAURA: Should we do a dance?
SAM: We've practiced one.
LAURA: I mean, we did a really good one before. So
yeah. We could do that for them.
SAM: We could try to teach it to them.
LAURA: Yeah!
SAM: Great. Ahem. Hoy hoy! Hi, Captain Avantika.
LAURA: And Jamedi.
MATT: Jamedi's a few feet ahead. He's currently
leading the path. They're about 20 feet from each other.
SAM: Oh, sorry.
LAURA: I'll get Jamedi.
SAM: Sure.
LAURA: Hey, Jamedi!
MATT: Jamedi is like, "What?"
LAURA: Can you come here for a second? I have
something I need to show you.
MATT: "What is this? This has no bearing on--"
LAURA: It's really important, though. It's super
important.
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
LAURA: Ooh! 22.
MATT: He goes, (sigh) "What is it?"
LAURA: Come here, come here!
SAM: Hi!
TRAVIS: You can see the temperature rising.
MATT: (sigh) He begins to walk over in your
direction.
LAURA: Okay, now that we have you two together.
SAM: Yes.
MATT: Avantika' still ten feet from you, but is
like, "What is it you want?"
LAURA: Okay, we'll do this very quietly.
SAM: Something that-- Hi, it's me, Gilligan. Nice
to see you again. Something that we used to do on
our ship to relieve the tension.
LAURA and SAM: And raise morale.
SAM: Was we had a boat dance.
LAURA: Yes, and it was specific when we were on
really important missions and stuff.
SAM: Do you guys have one of those?
MATT: "Not specific to the dance, no. Not to the
boat, at the very least."
LAURA: Well, so you have dances, though? Did you
do to raise morale? Do you and Jamedi do one together?
MATT: Jamedi goes, "This is completely
inconsequential to me and I need to keep an eye on
"the path ahead."
LIAM: After a moment passes, I stand behind
Caduceus' tall frame and quietly cast Detect Magic.
MATT: Okay. So, you cast Detect Magic. As your
visual aura expands beyond, giving you faint bits
of essence of magic around you. All of your
friends that have various magical accoutrements
themselves, begin to glow on their persons and
around their persons. You can see that Avantika,
both blades that are currently sheathed give off a
faint aura. That seems to be all that you can
notice at the moment.
LIAM: Even for Jamedi?
MATT: Jamedi, you do not see--
LIAM: Oh, I need to walk up and learn more about
this dance, then.
TALIESIN: Wait, I'm going to stop you because I
see what you're doing. You're probably not going
to get anything off him, but he's got an undead
vibe that I've been picking up.
LIAM: Oh. Ja verstehen, okay.
TALIESIN: I feel you. It's been making me pretty
creeped out, to be honest, but I'm trying to hold
together and keep chill. Chill. Lots of chill.
It's hot, but--
LIAM: I still want to see what he's carrying.
TALIESIN: You're really going-- Let me know what
you see and we'll compare notes later.
LIAM: What are you two doing over here? You're
holding up. We need to move.
MATT: Jamedi's already moving, by the way, he's
ignored both of you and has continued up with the path.
LIAM: I try to catch up to him!
LAURA: Oh. We're just showing the dance, is all.
SAM: Oh, sorry.
LIAM: I pass them by. Try to catch up.
MATT: Okay. As you catch up, the next thing you
see as you turn back is Jamedi, hand up behind in
your direction.
TRAVIS: Shh!
SAM: He's a ninja.
MATT: As you all begin to listen, Beauregard,
Caleb, and Caduceus, you hear the cracking of
branches and twigs and the shifting of jungle
floor. Jamedi puts two fingers in the air and then--
LAURA: What does that mean? What does two mean?
TRAVIS: Two people go up.
LIAM: I creep up to just about 30 feet away.
SAM: Don't! Not you.
MARISHA: I agree. And I walk up.
MATT: Okay, so Beauregard and Caleb approach.
MARISHA: No, why are you following me? Why are you
doing this?
MATT: "Shh!" you hear coming from Jamedi. As you
look just past this clearing, you notice a troop
of four figures making their way through to brush.
You hear this very low, guttural clicking from one
of them. You can notice these shapes, these
figures in a little bit of the now somewhat fading
dusk light, they're muscular, and burly, and
hunched. You see scaled skin, but deeply scaled
all over. Not snake-like, but more lizard-like.
You see long snouts with rows of sharp teeth and a
frill down the back of the neck. You can see
makeshift bits of leather strapped together to
form patches of armor across the torso. Big heavy
shields, carved from some sort of a large shell,
that has multiple rows of spines and hooks down
the back of it. You see clubs and heavy blades
that are made of makeshift, scavenged metal or
weapons that have washed up on shore or have been
recovered from others that have been unlucky to
make their way to this island and never returned.
MARISHA: How many?
MATT: Four of them. Each one of them has a spear.
MARISHA: I duck down, I turn to the rest of the
group, and I say: (whispering) Snake. Four of
them. Shields. Weapons.
TRAVIS: That's a bad gesture.
LIAM: I quickly turn around and through the wire
say: (whispering) There's four lizard people over
here. Looking in the distance at them and at
Jamedi.
MATT: Okay, make a perception check.
LIAM: Before this spell fades.
SAM: (whispering) There's four lizard people up
there.
LAURA: (whispering) Oh.
SAM: We should do this quietly.
LIAM: 16.
MARISHA: I direct the group and I say: You flank
this way, and then you guys flank that way. We
flank around.
SAM: Just for fun, but let's try it!
MATT: Yasha's cupping behind her ear going,
"What?"
SAM: Yasha and Fjord to the right. We'll go to the
left.
LAURA: Okay!
MATT: At this point, you hear a sudden impact.
(growling and impacts) Glancing over, Caleb, you
watch as behind them on the bushes in the opposite
side of this small path they are walking through,
you see three arrows. Two of these lizardfolk
tumble to the ground to one knee (growling). They
turn around and two people in purple-ish robes
with basic jewelry and leather bands rush forward
with daggers and a scimitar in the other hand and
slash out and start hacking. These lizards are now
being assaulted by these people and behind them,
one burly man with weathered, dark skin, exposed
chest, and these large, billowing, thick arms that
look like two very long, five-foot serpents that
come protruding out the sides of the shoulders
into these two separate snakeheads, full with eyes
and teeth, rush forward and slam, biting into the
throat of one of the lizardmen. He goes (choking)
and gets pulled to the ground.
LAURA: Arm snakes? His arm snakes?!
MATT: His arms are snakes. The two other people
that you see: you see one male, one female. Both
look human, but in the middle of this chaos you
can see their eyes are bright yellow with the
serpentine, snake eye slit in the center. Now the
lizard men are pulling up their shields. One of
them has been carved down on the ground. The one
with the big hand has pulled the throat closed to
the point where it's slowly dying on the floor.
They have completely gone into this combat between
the two of them.
LIAM: Roughly how far away is that fray?
MATT: It's about 60 or 70 feet. They haven't
noticed any of you here and you are currently
completely in shadows. What do you do?
MARISHA: (whispering) I tell them to hold.
LIAM: Also, do I see anything glowing on Jamedi?
MATT: No.
LIAM: Okay.
LAURA: Do you see anything glowing on any of the
snake people, though?
MATT: Too far away.
MARISHA: We duck.
TRAVIS: We're staying put.
MARISHA: And watching. So it's snakes versus
lizards, right?
MATT: Yeah.
SAM: This is the ultimate Godzilla movie.
TRAVIS: His big arms are five feet? Like, these
big-ass--
MATT: Yeah. About a foot wide and they spiral
upward and then they snap into giant fangs that
protrude and snap on each. His face is intense and
grinning. This is a hunting party. One of the
lizardmen grabs his spear and jams it into the
abdomen of the man with the snake arms. Looks back
and hisses at him angrily. Manages to pull the
spear free with one of the snake hands, leaps
over, pole vaulting off the ground, the other
snakehead coming out and snapping into the
shoulder and chest area of the snakeman and then
throwing him up into the air. You hear (screech)
as he goes flying, spinning up into the boughs,
lands on the ground. He stands back up, grabs his
shield, and you can see him woozy. There's this
black color where the impact of the wound was, and
you see the veins growing dark. It stumbles and
falls onto its knees and then falls to the ground.
LAURA: Some people got venomous bites.
TRAVIS: You ever seen an anaconda mouth? There are
lots of teeth in there. It's real bad.
MATT: One by one, you watch as each of the
lizardmen are felled from the ambush and--
TRAVIS: Three of the other party.
MATT: Yes. Two of which looked to be comparably
smaller creatures, but they just weren't prepared
and while the three snakeman hunting party
appeared to have sustained a few blows and
injuries, they were successful.
TRAVIS: The other two only had eyes that seemed
off?
MATT: Correct. As you're inspecting, you can see
patches of skin across their shoulders and a part
of the chest, you can see scales that appear and
then vanish. With the battle done, the quiet hits,
and they begin to walk off to a small patch where
they had dropped some sort of a satchel. They
start pulling out rope and they start tying the
legs together of these lizardmen until they have
two of them tied on one side and the other two
tied ankle-to-ankle on the other. The one with the
two snake arms picks up both and begins dragging
them behind him in the jungle while the other two
flank and look out into the grass below. They
begin making their way deeper towards the path
where they came, away from you. Their hunt
successful, they're bringing their meal back with them.
LIAM: The path that they took away, does it line
up or deviate from the general direction that we
have been heading in?
MATT: The direction you've been traveling has been
a little zig-zaggy, because it's been following
Jamedi's path and the marking he's making, so
you're not entirely certain. It seems it could be
parallel to the path you're going, but since you
don't know the final destination, you're not
entirely certain if it'll line up with it or not.
LIAM: Okay.
LAURA: (whispering) Jamedi!
MATT: His hand's still up, he's just watching
carefully. (whispering) "Shh! What?"
LAURA: Are we following them or are we going a
different way?
MATT: "We are not to get anywhere near these
creatures."
LAURA: Good. They eat lizard people.
MATT: "So I have noticed."
LAURA: Did you see his arms?
MATT: "I did. It was quite frightening."
LAURA: Oh my god. Imagine if it was his legs. How
would he even walk?
MATT: "It is a very good question. One that will
keep me up late at night."
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: You're not sure if he's joking. Do you guys
do anything else or you just let them pass and
continue on?
TRAVIS: We're going to let them go.
LAURA: Did they leave anything on the ground? Did
they leave anything? Did they drop anything?
MATT: Make an investigation check.
TRAVIS: The canopy of trees above, right? There's
no sort of--
MATT: Yeah, it's a thick jungle canopy. It breaks
in places.
SAM: That was the greatest plan we've ever had. We
flanked. The battle was just over!
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: 11.
MARISHA: We didn't punch our way through shit!
TRAVIS: It's a new day.
MARISHA: Oh my god!
MATT: Amongst the ground where the battle took
place, you can see there are mashed plants and
streaks of thick lizardmen blood, a few broken
teeth that are scattered in the sand there, but
nothing beyond that of value.
LAURA: I take some teeth.
MATT: Okay. So you get three lizardmen teeth.
LAURA: Okay.
MARISHA: I turn around and I say: Do we have
anything that resists poison or venom?
LAURA: I have a spell that I took this morning
that will cure poison, but I don't have anything
that protects from poison today.
MARISHA: Caduceus, you raised your hand.
TALIESIN: I've got both, but it's best applied
when needed, really. There's only so much to go around.
MARISHA: I feel like maybe with these people we
should have a frontline party and a backline
party. And maybe a little frontline poison
resistance could be good.
SAM: So put our two clerics in front?
MARISHA: No! I don't mind going in front, mainly
because I have no fucking range.
LAURA: Do we have to keep whispering? Can we
pretend we're still whispering, but let's not
actually whisper?
MARISHA: Can we do that?
MATT: It's up to you.
MARISHA: But if we give the, "We're stage
whispering!"
TALIESIN: (normal volume) This is my whisper
voice.
MARISHA: Just saying, these guys clearly have
reach and I don't think we want to have all of us
tangle with them.
SAM: Who do you think should be in front?
TRAVIS: Yeah, you make a good point.
LAURA: What if we're in the middle because we're
so heal-y?
TALIESIN: That's fair. We'll be in the middle just
in case things go wrong.
MARISHA: You're so heal-y, yeah!
TALIESIN: I'm pretty heal-y.
MARISHA: I'm not going to volunteer to speak for
anybody, but I know I'm better when I'm up in close.
TRAVIS: I'll join you. Anybody else? Everybody
else should stay at least 20, 25 feet back.
MARISHA: Could you give the both of us
resistance?
TALIESIN: If we get into an altercation, I'll pop
both of you as quickly as possible.
LAURA: We should have somebody keeping an eye
behind. Did you notice the snake people came up
behind the lizard people?
TRAVIS: Yasha should stay with the healers for
sure.
MARISHA: Yasha can look behind. (whispering)
Yasha! Behind!
MATT: "I-- I have been."
TRAVIS: The whole time! You, me, Jamedi, and
Avantika in the front.
LAURA: Avantika's in the front? With you?
TRAVIS: Is that all right?
LAURA: Whatever.
(laughter)
LIAM: I have been spending this entire debate
looking north and remembering everything that I
saw on the way here from the boat and just
calculating an exit strategy, because I remember
the things that I saw on the way here.
MATT: Good to know. Now that enough time has
passed and Jamedi feels comfortable he puts his
hand down and goes, "All right, we press forward.
Follow me, I feel we'll have to make camp soon.
"There is a ruin in front that might give us some
cover." Continuing on?
LAURA: Jamedi, what if it was his dick that was
the snake though?
MATT: He keeps his eyes trained forward but goes,
"I imagine it would be difficult to relieve oneself."
LAURA: Probably.
LIAM: (shouting) Or masturbate!
MATT: He turns around and goes, "Shh! It is a
valid point, but I need you to be quiet, please."
LIAM: Good riddance.
MATT: Continuing on, the sun sets, and the sky
goes through its cycle of oranges to pinks to
purples to blues. You haven't quite reached this
aforementioned ruin before night falls. Now the
evening insects begin to grow louder and louder.
The nocturnal creatures begin to let out the
nocturnal calls. The perpetual din of the various
clicks and cricket noises and other various
flapping insects' mating calls into the night
become this constant droning sound around you.
While the insect bites have subsided, this sound
itself is uncomfortable. For those of you who are
used to more comfortable sleep, you begin to dread
the possibility of finding a night's rest in this.
LAURA: Caleb, if you do the bubble thing, can the
insects come in the bubble? Can you make it?
TRAVIS: Well, Jester, doesn't it glow?
LIAM: No, I'm able to affect its color and have it
match. It still looks like a very smooth bubble
that is 8-feet tall-- maybe not that big, but it
can match the general color.
TRAVIS: Just be dark and not attract any other
attention?
LIAM: Yeah, it does not glow.
LAURA: Okay, then do it please!
TALIESIN: Yeah-- this is great.
LIAM: I spend the next 11 minutes, I pull out the
book, unholster it and start doing a ritual cast, ja?
MATT: Ritual cast of?
LIAM: Leomund's tiny hut. Is this where we want to
do it, Jester?
LAURA: This is where we're camping though, yeah?
MATT: Jamedi says, "Perhaps we wait until we get
to the ruin, just so we have some cover beyond the trees."
LIAM: Okay, just a little longer then.
MATT: Who's keeping watch on this first bit of a
night travel?
TALIESIN: I'll take one.
MATT: All right. Roll perception, as will Jamedi.
TALIESIN: 21.
MATT: 21? Okay.
TALIESIN: I'll pop in the occasional low-level
Light cantrip as far away from us as possible,
just popping every now and then, if I think I see
something.
MATT: Okay. Following this little chain of lights
that pop and glow as it goes, eventually you come
upon the first signs of stone rubble. Some sort of
structure was built here long ago, and has since
fallen over, and elements of its masonry either
moved or reclaimed for other structures elsewhere
on the island, but you can see the basis of walls
and joining positions where elements of this
previous building were used to maintain and hold
the ceiling that has since fallen in. There is a
series of walked paths that carved through the
various ferns and heavy bush, but you do find the
back of one of these walls where Jamedi says,
"This is where I slept previously. Perhaps this is
"the best place to rest. So--" He begins to set up
a small tent arranging against the wall. What do
you guys do?
LIAM: Do we want it just to be us and they have
the tent?
SAM: Kind of. I mean, is that rude?
TALIESIN: They didn't bring any tents for us.
LAURA: But remember that you can hear through the
bubble, remember still, though. Okay. So we can't
talk bad about them, though.
TRAVIS: I think maybe we invite them in and one of
us keeps out--
LAURA: But do it like, "Do you want to stay with
us?" but do it like this.
SAM: Do you want to ask them with that stink
face?
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: Okay.
LAURA: Captain Avantika and Jamedi, did you want
to stay with us in the bubble?
SAM: There's no facilities or anything.
LAURA: It's stinky in there, but if you want to.
MATT: Jamedi goes, "I am unfamiliar with what this
bubble is you speak of?"
LAURA: It's whatever. It's a little bubble.
SAM: It's like a tent.
LAURA: It's like a tent, basically.
MATT: "I am okay." He heads back to configuring
his tent. Avantika tilts her head and goes, "I
"assume this is some sort of protective measure for
your night's rest?"
LAURA: Mm-hmm.
MATT: "Then I would be delighted to join you."
SAM: I mean, don't feel like you're obligated--
MATT: "Believe me, it is my honor."
LAURA: Great, cool.
MATT: Sheathes the rapier, but keeps the dagger
drawn, turned around in her hand so it's face down
and looks over her shoulder both ways out towards
the darkness. "So how spacious is this?" As you
finish the spell, the strange, colored orb appears
there on the side of the ruins.
LIAM: At the surroundings here or what, we're
behind a little bit of stone ruins, or--?
MATT: Yeah, there's a couple of small stone
elements there.
LIAM: Then it's gray, the same color as the stone.
I have control of the color. Also out of
curiosity, I am a transmutation wizard, so do I
have a sense of how old the stone surrounding us is?
MATT: The stone here-- make an intelligence
check.
LIAM: Ugh, bad roll. 12.
MATT: You don't have specific information on it.
It's quite old. It might be older than this age,
might have existed pre-Calamity, or at least
somewhere in that neighborhood. But you're not
entirely certain.
TALIESIN: Mr. Caleb, want to take a walk, maybe?
Really quickly around this thing, get a gander at it?
LIAM: The thing is, if I exit this bubble now,
then it goes away.
TALIESIN: Oh, then I'll just report back in a minute.
LIAM: I could do it again--
TALIESIN: No, that's okay, better safe than sorry.
I'll let you know when I see.
LAURA: Do you want company? Do you need anyone
with you?
TALIESIN: Oh, I'd love company, actually, just in
case.
LAURA: Okay. Beau! Nott! (whispering) Keep an eye
on them, okay? Let me know what happens.
TRAVIS: On who?
LAURA: Shut up! I mean--
SAM: On who, our friends?
LAURA: Yeah, just-- forget it, let's go.
TALIESIN: We'll take a look around this thing, and
I also want to cast another Detect Undead, while
we're walking.
MATT: You're going to look around what?
TALIESIN: I'm going to take a walk around this
little ruin. I'm going to have the little Light
spell up, see if there's any writing on anything,
any carvings. I'm going to have Eyes of the Grave
up again. I'm going to be looking for any undead.
MATT: Okay. And you're accompanying him?
LAURA: I'm watching his back!
MATT: The rest of you are staying within the
sphere, gray color, dimly lit on the interior? It
can be whatever light source you want at this
point. The two of you wander around the ruin. Make
an investigation check, if you don't mind.
LAURA: Can I help? Does that make it easier?
TALIESIN: You roll too, maybe.
LAURA: Okay. Nope.
TALIESIN: 12.
LAURA: One! I'm not very observant today, okay?
I've got things on my mind.
MATT: Okay. As you walk through and pore over the
ruins, the structure is fairly simple. This wasn't
some beautifully-made stone hall. Most of the
stones here were probably pulled from rivers or
were smoothed over, and they're varying sizes, and
the masonry is very simple.
TALIESIN: Couldn't figure what it's a temple to,
or any--?
MATT: Not particularly. You don't know if it's a
temple; it could have been an abode. It doesn't
appear to be huge. There seem to be one or two
adjacent rooms that were set in that space.
TALIESIN: And nothing from the Detect Undead?
MATT: Nothing from the Detect Undead, no.
TALIESIN: Other than what I already expect to
see?
MATT: No.
TALIESIN: What I expect to see is still giving off
a little glow, right?
MATT: Correct. What's the range on that?
TALIESIN: 60 feet, although I will say divination
magic would also blind me to that, and if it was
full cover, I would possibly not see it as well.
MATT: Right, understood. Caduceus, what's your
armor class?
TALIESIN: 17.
MATT: As you're looking over the stonework and
turning to Jester to mention you didn't see much--
TALIESIN: The funny thing is--
MATT: (impact) There is a shape that moves out of
the shadows with incredible speed. The light, the
faint color being emanated from Caduceus' cantrip
immediately falls away and you see the streak of
his hair disappear in the nearby shadow. I need
you to make a strength saving throw.
LAURA: Like he's gone? He's just gone in front of
me?
MATT: You watched him be pushed off into a nearby
bush.
MARISHA: Football tackled, just gone, okay.
TALIESIN: Ten.
MATT: That's a fail. You get pushed off, land on
the ground, you tumble, and are held prone on the
ground as what little bit of light you can see--
not having darkvision, unfortunately-- what you
see is a faint glimmer of two large white fangs, a
smattering of whiskers right before you, this
growl sound, and a cluster of snake heads that
bend around each side of the head.
TRAVIS: I just peed a little.
MATT: The bite attack hits you. That is only five
points of piercing damage. Actually, it gets
advantage on the second one. Okay, with the
advantage it does hit, and the other one, the
snakes all snap onto you, multiple snake bites,
all biting across your face and your throat. For
that, you suffer eight points of piercing damage
and you need to make a constitution saving throw, please.
SAM: Mr. Clay.
TALIESIN: I mean, come on.
MATT: Ooh.
LAURA: Oh no, don't make that sound, Matthew.
TALIESIN: And I need to make a constitution saving
throw?
SAM: You've got this, Mr. Clay.
TRAVIS: Come on, snitch!
TALIESIN: 15.
MATT: That's a success. You take half damage. You
only take 12 points of poison damage.
TRAVIS: Oh my god!
LAURA: But he's not poisoned?
MATT: Correct. Jester, you see the shape and you
glance over and you can see with your darkvision
this ten-foot-long leopard-like cat that is
currently now pressed onto the chest and body of
Caduceus. It bites down towards him and all these
strange protrusions from around the shoulders and
head area all strike down, as a few of them curl
back and look at you and in that bit, you can see
a few beats of light, faint bits of starlight and
moon that are coming down and reflecting in the
eyes of these snake heads. And you hear this
(growling) up behind you on the ruin where you
were just standing. I'll be right back.
TRAVIS: We got ambushed!
LAURA: What do we do?!
SAM: Clever girl.
LAURA: Oh no!
TRAVIS: How far away are you guys?
LAURA: I don't know if we're very far. I don't
think we're very far away.
LIAM: They went to do a perimeter sweep.
SAM: Find out about these beasts on D&amp;D Beyond!
TRAVIS: Oh shit! That means there's probably more
than two?
SAM: Look at these palm trees!
LAURA: This is really cool, though.
MATT: Caduceus, you are over here. Jester, you are
here.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
MATT: Now the rest of you are over-- so Jamedi's
over here in his tent. The rest of you are all
clustered inside the hut. Caduceus--
LAURA: Oh god, it's so scary! It's a leopard with
snake heads!
MARISHA: It's a leopard with snakes!
TRAVIS: Why would you make that?
SAM: That's someone who was drunk at night and was
like, "Let's just do this thing!"
MATT: I need everyone to roll initiative.
Technically you guys don't hear anything, so we'll
see when it comes around your turn.
MARISHA: Wait, what? What do you mean, we don't
hear anything? You said we heard through the bubble!
MATT: You hear sounds, but there's been no sound
yet. You guys have been setting yourselves up for
the evening there. The only person that would have
probably noticed would have been Caduceus.
TRAVIS: And he is getting fucked up right now.
LIAM: The good news is we're totally safe in this
bubble and nothing can happen to us.
SAM: And both of our clerics--
TRAVIS: Both our healers are outside! Typical.
MATT: 25 to 20.
MARISHA: Wow. Cool.
TRAVIS: Nobody.
SAM: Oh, someone roll for Yasha.
MATT: If you want to get that?
TRAVIS: Seven, plus-- I got to get her sheet.
MATT: Yes, you do.
TRAVIS: I think it's nine.
LAURA: I need a Turkish delight before I die.
MATT: 25 to 20. Nobody? 20 to 15?
MARISHA: 18.
TALIESIN: 17.
TRAVIS: Beau, Caduceus.
LAURA: No! Stop! Look at all the powder falling
off.
SAM: We're going to eat that whole box.
MATT: 15 to ten.
LAURA: 13.
MATT: All righty. Ten to five.
TRAVIS: Yasha has nine. I have eight.
SAM: Nott's sitting at seven. Oh, I'm at eight,
actually. Eight.
MATT: Fjord and Nott got the same. All right,
Caleb.
LIAM: Vier.
TRAVIS: What?
LIAM: Four.
SAM: Eins, zwei, drei, vier.
MATT: Beau, you're up first, but you have not
noticed anything, so your turn is spent fluffing
your space to sleep for the evening.
MARISHA: You know what, Fjord? I think Jester is a
little jealous. Just throwing it out there.
TRAVIS: Jealous? Jealous of what?
MARISHA: Shit, are you fucking serious right now?
LIAM: Six seconds. Done.
MATT: Caduceus.
TALIESIN: I'm going to yell for help and then I'm
going to--
MATT: You all immediately hear--
TALIESIN: Help! Then I'm going to tap my staff to
wake up my beetles as my bonus action. My beetles
are going to make a bite attack on that. I
actually have that information now thanks to the update.
SAM: On D&amp;D Beyond?
TALIESIN: On D&amp;D Beyond.
SAM: Wow.
TALIESIN: So that's a swarm attack, they have a
bite. That's plus three to hit, I believe. That's a 13.
MATT: 13 does not hit.
TALIESIN: Okay. That's okay. Well, they're in the
space right now. I'm panicking, so this is going
to be fun. I'm going to start making a weird,
awful sound, and I'm going to start getting even
paler and a little gaunter, and I'm going to grab
it and I'm going to cast-- I'm so panicked--
Vampiric Touch.
TRAVIS: I like it! Get some of that shit back.
TALIESIN: So since I'm in contact with it--
MATT: It's a melee spell attack.
TALIESIN: Melee spell attack.
MATT: Go ahead and roll for an attack.
TALIESIN: What is a melee attack here?
MATT: It's a d20 plus your spell attack modifier.
TALIESIN: Okay, plus eight. 20.
MATT: 20 hits. Go ahead and roll damage for the
Vampiric Touch.
TALIESIN: Oh man, this is mean.
MATT: They're next and then Jester, you're up.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: That's 3d6. That's (counting) ten points
of necrotic damage and I regain five hit points.
TRAVIS: Atta boy!
MATT: As you reach up, your hand grasps its throat
and this strange hissing sound happens as you pull
life force energy out of it. It's strange threads
of purplish-black energy that pull into your body,
your wounds healing up slightly.
LAURA: So I can see that, huh?
MATT: You can see a faint bit of energy coming out
of Caduceus.
TALIESIN: Help!
MATT: Is that your turn?
TALIESIN: That is, unless I can try and move
away.
MATT: You're prone, so it's half movement to try
and crawl away. Or you can spend half your
movement to get up and then you still have half
your movement to try and escape if you want.
TALIESIN: I'm going to try and half my movement to
get up.
MATT: All righty. So you get up from prone.
LAURA: Well, that's good. I thought he was like on
top of you.
TALIESIN: I'm going to back up against you.
MATT: To here.
LAURA: Won't he get an attack of opportunity?
TALIESIN: Will he get an attack of opportunity?
MATT: You can go right there and not get an attack
of opportunity.
TALIESIN: Okay, perfect. That way if you get
poisoned, I can un-poison you.
LAURA: If you get poisoned, I can un-poison you!
TALIESIN: Cool.
MATT: That finishes Caduceus' turn. It's now their
turn. The one up top who's hissing down at you,
(long exhale). As its jaw opens, this
semi-translucent rolling cloud of dust and gas
emanates in a 30-foot-cone.
LAURA and MARISHA: (intone "Semi-Charmed Life")
TALIESIN: Both clerics. Why did both clerics go on
a hunting mission?
LAURA: We're the stupidest.
TALIESIN: Yeah, we're so dumb.
MATT: I need you both to make constitution saving
throws, please.
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay.
SAM: Picking your dice.
TRAVIS: It's like Avatar in the fucking--
TALIESIN: 20.
MATT: 20. You manage to resist the effect.
LAURA: Nine.
MATT: Jester, you inhale it, suddenly caught
off-guard by it and your eyes blink and go dark as
you fall unconscious.
LAURA: So sleepy.
MARISHA: She's unconscious?!
MATT: Yep.
SAM: Wait, like unconscious or asleep?
MATT: Like unconscious. Not zero hit points, but
asleep unconscious.
LAURA: Like hardcore.
MATT: Yes. All right.
TRAVIS: Shit.
MATT: It is going to move, jump down from here,
and begin to move this way to flank you, Caduceus.
Now flanking you, is going to attempt to strike at
you twice. Good to know, I forgot about that.
Bite, this one's claws, so it's going to be with
advantage. Okay, that is going to make it an 18 to hit.
TALIESIN: Why is it advantage?
MATT: Because they're flanking you.
TALIESIN: Oh, goddamn it. Yeah, that hits.
MATT: All right, so the bite attack. You take six
points of piercing damage and the snakes snap at
you. That is going to be a 19.
TALIESIN: That also hits.
MATT: You take another-- ooh, that's ten points of
piercing damage. At this point, as you're between
the two of them, the one behind you that just put
Jester to sleep, all its snakes snap around you,
the back of your head and your neck and your
shoulders, and you feel the poison through your
veins. Roll another constitution saving throw,
please.
LAURA: Oh my god.
MATT: Two of the clerics went out on a solo
mission.
TALIESIN: 12.
MATT: 12? 12 just-- no, 12 succeeds!
LAURA: Yay!
TALIESIN: How do you have that spray and the
snakes in the same-- that's just so much.
TRAVIS: How many hit points do you--
TALIESIN: Help! I'm standing.
MATT: Half that is going to be 13 points of poison
damage.
TALIESIN: I'm kind of still standing.
LAURA: He's like slumped.
MATT: All righty, they're done. Jester, you are
unconscious and sleeping.
LAURA: I'm going to dream about the Traveler.
MATT: That brings us to Avantika and Jamedi.
LAURA: I'm dreaming that me and the Traveler are
skipping over hills and picking flowers.
MATT: "What the shit is that?" pulls out the
rapier and the dagger, and darts, leaping over
(counting), just seeing these creatures rushes
forward. "Hiyah!" and is leaping forward with her
rapier and blade and is going to make three
attacks. The gray is going to be with the dagger,
one rapier shot misses, then one for the rapier
and one for the dagger hits. For the dagger, that is--
MARISHA: Going for a nighttime stroll.
TRAVIS: We are in a total danger zone,
and we're taking strolls.
MARISHA: (singing) Danger zone!
TALIESIN: It was my own fault. I was suspicious.
MATT: And another ten points of damage on that.
TRAVIS: What? On both? Wow.
MATT: It was a seven and a ten. Then Avantika
seems to be holding both blades ready, preparing
to defend herself. Jamedi, who stumbles out of his
tent, is only half movement, glances over and can
barely see what's there. He's on the inside of the
dome, pulls out his shortbow, and is going to
attempt to shoot it with an arrow and misses with
a four. A natural four. There is no light source
here; it seems to disappear in the distance. That
finishes with his turn. That brings us to Yasha.
TRAVIS: Yeah, Yasha will use her full movement to
follow Avantika out of the bubble. The Bubl.
LAURA: Can she flank it?
MATT: She can get to about there.
TRAVIS: Is that within melee?
MATT: That is within melee, yes.
TRAVIS: Great. She'll take a swipe. That is a 17.
MATT: 17 will hit!
TRAVIS: So that's 2d6 right?
MATT: 2d6 plus an additional d6.
LAURA: Did she rage?
TRAVIS: No, she didn't. Because I-- yep.
LIAM: He doesn't know barbarians.
MATT: So no, it's just 2d6 because you weren't
raging.
TRAVIS: Great, six points of damage.
MATT: All right. You added the three points for
strength, right?
TRAVIS: No! Nine points of damage.
MATT: Nine point of damage. You got it. Second
attack?
MARISHA: It's real fun playing a character when
you don't have their sheet.
TRAVIS: Yeah. That's 16.
MATT: 16? That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. 2d6
plus three. Plus four technically because--
TRAVIS: Oh, plus four? So six, so ten. Ten points
of damage.
MATT: Got it.
TRAVIS: And with her bonus action, she would like
to rage.
SAM: Hey!
MATT: There you go! That finishes up Yasha's turn.
Fjord and Nott, you guys up.
SAM: I heard Mr. Clay. Let's go. I'll scramble
out, going into the direction that I heard the
sound and seeing all these folks over here.
MATT: Okay, so you leave the thing, you can see
everyone right there.
SAM: Do I see the beast?
MATT: You do. You see that one beast right there.
SAM: I will kneel down and pew, shoot it in its
hindquarters. That's a miss. 12.
MATT: 12 does not hit.
SAM: Reload. Fire again. Wait, do I want to do
this? Nope. I'll keep moving and hide behind that wall.
MATT: Right here?
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: All righty.
SAM: Bonus action hide.
MATT: Role a stealth check.
SAM: Okay, that's a 28.
LAURA: Don't you get advantage because of your
cloak?
SAM: Sure.
LAURA: You could get a 20.
SAM: Still 28.
MATT: You are stealthed there. Okay, so that
finishes Nott's go. Fjord, what are you doing?
TRAVIS: Can I use my 30 feet of movement to run
that direction around the far side of the ruin? Yep.
MATT: You come around the edge and you turn and
see, right there in front of you, another one of
these leopard-like creatures, and you're like, "Oh
shit!" You didn't even notice there was a second
one there.
TRAVIS: Oh shit! I'll just fire both streams of
Eldritch Blast from each hand.
MATT: Go for it!
TRAVIS: 13.
MATT: 13 misses, unfortunately.
TRAVIS: Second one. That'll hit. 23.
MATT: That'll work.
TRAVIS: Excellent. Nice. That's 11 points of
Eldritch Blast.
MATT: You blast and almost force it off of its
feet for a second. It catches itself (growling).
TRAVIS: Nice. Great, that's it.
MATT: (hissing) All the snakes turn to look at you
for a second. That finishes Fjord's go. Caleb,
you're up.
LIAM: I drop the hut, it's gone.
MATT: It vanishes.
LIAM: Seeing what I see, I've got the transmuter
stone, I can see in dim light, so I'm feeling into
my satchel and I take out some molasses and smear
it on my hands and cast Slow on-- I'll come as far
as I can over here, behind Yasha, to see what I
can see.
MATT: Over here you mean?
LIAM: I will come this way, not getting closer to
them. Yeah, that's fine. That's good. And cast
Slow on the two creatures that I see.
MATT: All righty.
LIAM: DC 16.
MATT: Yeah, all right, DC 16. That is a wisdom?
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: All right, that is a success. 16 on the
first roll. That's that one there. The other one,
natural 17 plus two, they both succeed, I'm so
sorry.
LIAM: No, no apologies.
TRAVIS: Good rolls.
MATT: Those were good rolls on their part. Does
that finish your turn, Caleb?
LIAM: If I have any movement left, I will back
away from that shit.
MATT: You have maybe five feet, I'll say right
here. So you start backing away. Back at the top
of the round. Beau, you're up. The orb has
vanished, everyone has rushed out, you look over
and you can hear these growls, and snarls, and
impacts. Combat is happening. What are you doing?
MARISHA: Oh my pillow-- ah! Then I just run and I
say: Nott! Duck! I jump over Nott and I'm going
for this one in the back, 45-speed.
MATT: Over this way, you mean?
MARISHA: Yeah, that one in the back.
TRAVIS: Oh, the one that I've been shooting at or
the closest--
MARISHA: The one that Fjord's been shooting at.
MATT: All right. First off, roll an acrobatics
check to make it over the wall.
MARISHA: Yeah, 25.
MATT: Yeah, you're fine. (counting)
MARISHA: I'm going to come down, big Iron Man
three-point landing, punch to its face.
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: Wow. Cool. Cool story, bro. 12?
MATT: 12 misses, unfortunately.
MARISHA: I crack my knuckles on a rock and I'm
like: Ah! And I roundhouse kick it with my second attack.
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: That's better. That's a 22.
MATT: 22 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
MARISHA: Wow, that's super great. Five points.
MATT: Five points of damage with your second
strike.
MARISHA: Then I'm going to go ahead and-- I hit
it, so I can do stunning-- no, I need to hit it
twice for stunning strike, right?
MATT: No, you just need to hit it once.
MARISHA: Just once? Can I stun it?
MATT: Yeah, all right, constitution saving throw.
That is a natural one. So you miss the first
strike, but as you roundhouse kick, you manage to
kick right up in its abdomen. You feel ribs break
and buckle under the impact of the kick. Some sort
of chain reaction spirals across its nervous
system as it falls to its side. It is stunned
until the end of your next turn.
MARISHA: I'm going to spend another ki point and
do flurry of blows for my bonus action.
MATT: Yes, you can do that. Yes.
MARISHA: And do pop pop, two more punches.
MATT: Go for it. You have advantage on these, I
believe. Yep.
MARISHA: First attack. I'll take that natural 17,
which I'm pretty sure hits for nine damage, and
then second attack is a natural 20. Thank you,
Gil. Roll two dice. That's double sixes! That's 12
plus four. No, wait. I double my die roll. I only
roll once.
MATT: It would have been fine. It's the same
either way. So 16 points of damage.
MARISHA: Sorry, 16 points of damage plus four, so
20 points of damage. Wait. No, 16 points of
damage. Math!
MATT: After it's stunned, you get up and wail on
him. The second hit managing to plunge right
towards where its kidney is, and you don't feel
any sort of muscular resistance as your fist sinks
about an inch or two into its body. You pull back.
It doesn't break the skin, but you can feel you
hurt some meaty organs in the inside. Does that
finish your turn, Beau?
MARISHA: Yes.
MATT: All right. Caduceus.
TALIESIN: So there's a stunned one behind me? A
stunned one on one side of me and a not-stunned
one on the other.
MATT: Correct.
TALIESIN: I'm going to hit the stunned one with
the Vampiric Touch.
MATT: Go for it. You have advantage on it.
SAM: You're at one hit point!
TALIESIN: I'm at four.
LAURA: He's getting Vampiric Touch. That means
he'll get to heal a little bit.
TALIESIN: It lasts. That's 17?
MATT: Yeah, that hits. Roll damage.
TALIESIN: That was close. Seven points of damage.
So I get three back?
MATT: You heal three back.
TALIESIN: So now I am at seven hit points. Now I'm
going to vanish. I'm going to disappear.
MATT: Okay. You turn invisible.
TALIESIN: I'm going to turn invisible.
MATT: Until the end of your next turn.
TALIESIN: Yeah. I'm going to circle around and
back off. Yeah. Then take a couple steps back. See
if anything happens.
MATT: It hears you moving and swipes out. It has
disadvantage on the strike. The snakes swing out
towards you. That is a 14 to hit.
TALIESIN: That misses.
MATT: You dodge out of the way. The snakes all
snap out in the middle of the air.
TALIESIN: I'm going to get a little further out.
I'm not going to go off the board or anything.
That's fine.
MATT: Okay. That ends your go. It's now their
turn.
SAM: You're going to be fine, Jessie.
LAURA: Yeah. Totally.
SAM: You're asleep.
MATT: The other one that currently, seeing all the
individuals cluster in the area, begins to back
up, and its torso swells and its lower jaw opens
and (exhales). The other one now releases a
similar burbling cloud right there. Avantika's
going to have to make a constitution saving throw.
Fails. Avantika falls asleep.
SAM: Is this a spray or a cloud?
MATT: It's a cloud.
SAM: So it goes around walls.
MATT: Yep. I need you to make a constitution save,
Nott.
TRAVIS: Me too, right?
MARISHA: Was I in that? Or no?
TRAVIS: 21.
MATT: You're fine. Make it.
MARISHA: 13.
MATT: You succeed.
SAM: 17.
LAURA: How about Yasha? Did Yasha roll?
MATT: Yasha was just out of the range of it,
actually. With that, it's going to attempt to run
off this way and dart. Yasha gets one strike on
it.
TRAVIS: She'll make it reckless.
MATT: Can't, reckless is on your turn.
TRAVIS: That's right. Yeah! That's a 24.
MATT: That'll hit.
TRAVIS: She's raging so 3d6. Nice! 14.
MATT: As she strikes wide with the blade, the
creature (snarling). It's limping a little bit and
it's trying to back away. It's unable to move from
where it is. Its speed is reduced to zero. So it
turns to now look at the two unconscious figures
on the ground. That one is stunned so it can't do
anything. Jester, you're up. You're asleep.
LAURA: I dream--
MATT: Avantika can't do anything. She's asleep.
Jamedi is going to move here next to the trees for
cover. He's going to reload his shortbow and take
a shot at that-- natural 20!
TRAVIS: Oh! Get it, Jamedi!
MATT: All right. That's eight damage with the
shortbow.
LIAM: Palms are sweaty.
TRAVIS: Knees weak.
MARISHA: Mom's Jamedi.
(laughter)
MATT: (clapping) Well done. That's fantastic.
That's going to end his turn. That brings us to Yasha.
LIAM: You just roll your eyes at us at this point.
That made me so happy.
MATT: No, "Mom's Jamedi" is pretty great.
TRAVIS: She'll run up and take her two swipes,
reckless.
MATT: She going to move?
TRAVIS: Yes. There you go.
SAM: Reckless, Great Weapon Master.
TRAVIS: Yeah! You know it.
SAM: Is she that? I don't know.
MATT: She's not Great Weapon Master, no.
TRAVIS: That's a natural 20. Dope!
MATT: Roll 3d6 and then double that.
TRAVIS: That's seven, 14.
MATT: 14 plus six, I believe. So 20 points of
damage. Yeah. How does Yasha want to do this?
TRAVIS: She'll see it sit there, and she'll reach
up high, and she'll try and cleave off the front
of the jaguar's head in one downward swing.
MATT: The body attempts to leap and the head
stumbles underneath with some of the snake heads.
The momentum carries it, but it runs straight into
the base of the tree, crossing the way before (impact)
on the ground. The head, still (growling). Coming
to rest on the ground.
TRAVIS: She still has one more attack, can she use
the rest of her movement to move towards the
jaguar? I think she has ten feet of her movement.
MATT: She could, yeah. If she has the rest of her
movement, she can use it to move up.
TRAVIS: Is that melee or just outside of it?
MATT: It's melee.
TRAVIS: Oh great, reckless as well. 21.
MATT: That hits.
TRAVIS: Yeah! 14 points of damage. Plus three,
right? Or no?
MATT: The 3d6 only happens on the first attack. So
it's only 2d6 for the second one.
TRAVIS: Oh, thank you. Lets back it down to nine.
MATT: Okay, got it. Plus six, so 14. Okay, got it.
That finishes Yasha's go. Fjord and Nott, you guys are up.
SAM: I'll climb up over the wall and take a shot
at the one remaining leopard. A pew pew. 21!
MATT: 21 hits! You have advantage on that shot
because it is stunned.
SAM: Advantage! Well, that's a weird roll. I'm
going to do that again. It's still like 21.
MATT: Yeah, so sneak attack on them.
SAM: Yeah. Ugh, terrible.
LAURA: Oh, I spit on you with that.
SAM: That's okay. 15.
MATT: 15 points of damage to it, struck. The blow
hits and sinks in. The creature's looking hurt,
but it's still standing, though it is stunned.
SAM: Damn. All right, I'll reload and shoot again,
this thing is--
MATT: With advantage because it's still stunned.
SAM: Great. 26.
MATT: 26 will do, yeah.
SAM: And then this is not a sneaky attacky,
right?
MATT: Correct. You only get once per round.
SAM: Much better. 11, and I'll use Fury of the
Small to make it 16.
MATT: All righty, it's looking really hurt. It's
real hurt.
LAURA: Fjord gets it.
MARISHA: Get it, Fjord.
MATT: Well, Fjord, what are you doing?
SAM: Oh, you know, maybe don't kill it. We can
interrogate it.
MATT: Because you guys are going at the same time,
you can figure out, these are simultaneous.
TRAVIS: I'll take just enough of a step back to
use Eldritch Blast again and I'll fire both of
them at it.
MATT: Two strikes on it.
TRAVIS: Eldritch Blast, 14?
MATT: 14 just hits. These are with advantage
because it's stunned, don't forget.
TRAVIS: Oh shit. The first one was better. 14 as
well on the second one.
MATT: Yeah, both hit.
TRAVIS: Okay, great. (counting) 19 points.
MATT: 19 points of damage, how do you and Nott
want to do this?
SAM: What did you use to attack?
TRAVIS: What did you do?
SAM: I shot it with the thing.
TRAVIS: I'll light it up with this crackling green
Eldritch Blast energy coming from both of my
palms, causing its fur to smoke and burn off and
its snake heads to repel!
SAM: Oh my god, that's so visceral and amazing.
I'll shoot it in the nose.
MATT: Its torso erupts in green flame and energy,
just (explosion). The body slinks to the ground in
a smoldering cinder and as it's head (moaning),
(arrow impact).
TRAVIS: I'll look over at Nott.
MATT: You guys all take a moment. Make a
perception check of the jungle around you.
MARISHA: Wait, who? All of us?
TRAVIS: All of us. Six.
LIAM: 12.
SAM: Oh. Jester's asleep.
MARISHA: Three.
SAM: Quick! Hey, hey, hey!
TALIESIN: 13.
MATT: 13, okay.
MARISHA: Ten.
LAURA: Keep hitting me.
SAM: Hey! Fjord! She needs some mouth-to-mouth.
MATT: You can use an action to wake her.
SAM and LAURA: Oh.
MATT: Jester, you come to consciousness and you're
half-curled on Avantika, who's half-curled on you
since you guys passed out right next to each
other.
LIAM: Caleb is going to quick-walk over to
Avantika, kneel down and say, "Are you all
right?!" with his back to Spaghetti and cast
Identify on one of the swords.
MATT: Okay. Make a deception check.
LIAM: Okay. My back is to him.
MATT: I know. There's still motions involved.
TRAVIS: "Are you okay?"
LIAM: It was almost a one, but it wasn't. That's
pretty good. It's 19.
MATT: As you bend down and focus on the blade--
which one, the dagger or the rapier?
LIAM: The rapier.
MATT: The rapier is a plus one rapier. Nothing too
crazy or special--
LAURA: Aw, should have focused on the dagger.
LIAM: Pat the cheeks.
MATT: Okay. She comes to and pushes you away for a
second and pulls the blade and puts her back up to
the wall and has both blades out and is coming to
consciousness, but instinctually is defensive.
LIAM: We're good.
TALIESIN: I'm going to gather in and keep an eye
out before I come back into visual-- I'm about to
become visible again.
LAURA: Did we win?
SAM: We won.
TRAVIS: I don't know that we did; there were only
two of them, and because Caleb left the bubble, it
disappeared, right?
LIAM: It's gone, but it only takes me 11 minutes.
I don't know, are we safe where we are?
LAURA: We can do the bubble here and have this
wall take up some of the bubble space, or we can
be right next to this wall.
TRAVIS: We made a bit of a ruckus, that's the last
thing you want to do in a jungle.
TALIESIN: Are we what?
SAM: Are you okay?
TALIESIN: Uh.
SAM: You don't look very good, Mr. Clay.
TALIESIN: Thank you. I'm going to Cure Wounds.
SAM: On yourself?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LIAM: Did they seem like intelligent beasts?
LAURA: I'm going to do it to you, too.
MATT: From what brief encounter you had, it's hard
to say. Make a nature check-- actually, no, this
would not be a nature. This is not a natural
creature. Make a general intelligence check.
LIAM: That's better. That's a 20.
MATT: 20? They don't appear to be. They're more
intelligent than some creatures in nature, but
there isn't any sort of--
LIAM: Still animalistic.
MATT: Yeah, still animalistic. They are natural to
this island at the very least.
LIAM: Knowing that, I would recommend that if I
make the bubble again, even if some more of them
come, as long as we stay safe for the next ten
minutes, if they come, we will be still and
sleeping and all they would see is a round stone.
They're animals, they will leave.
TRAVIS: Agreed. We should rally up back-to-back
while Caleb casts it.
SAM: Are we going to leave the two dead animal
bodies right here, next to where we're camping?
Because that could stink.
LAURA: We'll move over to where our bubble was
before, how about that?
SAM: Okay.
TALIESIN: I'll start them going too, so that wont
be a thing for very long.
TRAVIS and MARISHA: Start them going.
LIAM: I will begin my ritual spell in the same
spot.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: What were you guys doing out here?
LAURA: I was sleeping. Did you notice?
SAM: No, but before that. Why did you come out
here?
TALIESIN: What?
SAM: I will whisper to you: Why did you come out
here in the first place? Why were you walking
around in the dark, alone?
TALIESIN: No need to yell, that's all right.
SAM: I'm whispering!
TALIESIN: We were just looking at the temple,
trying to get an idea of what it was.
LAURA: Yeah, he was holding his light up really
bright and seeing if he could find any words and
stuff. I think they might notice some light.
TALIESIN: Yeah, that may have been a poor call.
LAURA: It's okay! We're learning things.
TALIESIN: I definitely feel like I've learned-- I
think I need to pass out.
LAURA: A good night of sleep will do you very
well.
MARISHA: Does everything in this jungle have snake
heads?
TRAVIS: I think that's a fair assumption.
LAURA: Or snake legs or snake arms or snake
dicks.
LIAM: Mecca lecca hi mecca hiney ho.
MATT: You complete your ritual spell and the Tiny
Hut is completed.
LAURA: Into the bubble.
MATT: At this point, Jamedi goes, "Actually, I
will be, if possible, interested in staying within
"this this time."
SAM: Oh, all right.
MATT: He grabs a few things from the tent-- and
it's a very tight space. Nine creatures is the
max, right? You've hit the maximum. You all manage
to fit in there in a not terribly comfortable space.
LIAM: Ten-foot radius, so 20 from one side to the
other.
TRAVIS: I still think one of us should stay up in
shifts inside this bubble. Just in case.
LIAM: Ja, I'll take the first shift. I'm good.
I'm very jittery tonight.
SAM: I'll stay up with you.
LIAM: Frumpkin, by the way, is flitting about a
little bit from person to person while we talk.
Even lands on Avantika's shoulder a little bit and
does a little--
LAURA: I bring Sprinkle out from inside my hood
and make sure he was okay during that whole fight.
MATT: Sprinkle, who is not necessarily used to the
type of weather, appears to be very uncomfortable
in the heat and being tucked into the cloth and is
like, (chittering).
LAURA: I give him some water and some little
food.
TRAVIS: What are you doing to that poor dog?
LAURA: I'm sorry, buddy. (kissing)
MATT: This is the crimson weasel. The dog is with
the Ruby of the Sea.
TRAVIS: Eh, whatever.
LIAM: Entschuldigung, I'm sorry. Now the owl is
pitter-patting on Avantika's hat.
MATT: Just walking along the hat?
LIAM: Not constantly, but in a cute way.
LAURA: Caleb-- I whisper in his ear: Make it poop.
Make it poop on her hat.
LIAM: Are you putting the umlaut over the o's in
the poop? Pyoop?
LAURA: What are you talking about?
SAM: You said "pyoop."
MATT: Avantika puts the finger up towards
Frumpkin.
MARISHA: Don't do it.
LIAM: He flitters up to the finger.
LAURA: Make it poop on her finger.
MARISHA: Unrealistic.
LIAM: He does whatever I say. He bats his little
one-ounce owl eyes at Avantika.
MATT: "Interesting."
MARISHA: Have you never seen an owl before?
MATT: "Not one so small and adorable and is
docile."
MARISHA: Mm-hmm. It's pretty cute.
LIAM: Frumpkin poops.
MARISHA: Really? Hey, Avantika. How many dudes you
think you killed?
MATT: "What, in all of my years?"
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: "I don't know. I stopped counting at around
50."
MARISHA: Oh. That's awesome.
TRAVIS: That's a high number.
MARISHA: Yeah, that's a big number.
MATT: "But in my line of work, it's important to
not hesitate when some drunk asshole tries to, I
"don't know, take your ship."
MARISHA: We can't relate at all, nope.
MATT: "Well, anyway. I will be taking a nap with
one eye open. Good night, everyone." She settles
into her camping garb. Who's keeping watch? All
right. Make perception checks for the first watch, guys.
SAM: We're inside the bubble, right?
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: But you can hear things.
SAM: 12.
LIAM: One. Also, we're being very quiet because we
don't want to be heard, but while we're in here,
Frumpkin, over a period of ten or 15 minutes, you
see this, goes (pitter-patting) along the ground
and hops onto Avantika's boot.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: (pitter-pattering) Eventually stands on top
of her dagger, and I cast Identify through touch
of my familiar. And he weighs one ounce.
MATT: Yeah, that's true.
TRAVIS: One ounce is good.
TALIESIN: One ounce owl. It's the best band.
MARISHA: The One Ounce Owl?
MATT: Avantika, who, as mentioned before, was
sleeping with one eye open, essentially, is rested
there and then right as you begin to go through
the actions of casting, there is a flash of motion.
LAURA: (gasps) Oh, no.
MATT: What is Frumpkin's armor class?
LIAM: Oh, I'm sure it's terrible. Hold on a
second.
SAM: Go to the creature tab on D&amp;D Beyond.
LIAM: I am. It is 11.
MATT: Frumpkin suffers five points of piercing
damage as Avantika instinctually (slashing, panting).
LIAM: Why did you do that?
MATT: "Why did you do that?"
LIAM: You know why I did that.
MATT: "And you know why I did that."
LIAM: Ey.
MATT: "Be glad it was just your owl. Please do not
go peering where it is not wanted, eh?"
LIAM: Okay. Don't mind me while I make another
owl. I begin casting Find Familiar to bring back
Frumpkin as a one-ounce owl.
(laughter)
MATT: Recycling Frumpkin.
LIAM: I promised Beauregard an owl for a week, so
I can't have my cat back. Ten minutes later,
there's an owl. Watch is over.
MATT: You finish your watch, seemingly uneventful.
Towards the tail end of it, you do see a shape of
another one of those leopard-like creatures that
stalks on the outskirts of the strange, opaque orb
you've created and approaches it. (sniffing)
Circles around it for a bit, prods at it every now
and then. Spends about 40 minutes or so keeping a
watch and then eventually loses interest and
wanders off into the jungle.
TRAVIS: Cool.
LIAM: (whispering) I like cats.
SAM: Not that kind.
MATT: All right, next watch? Who's taking next
watch? We only need one more watch; I think. Jester?
LAURA: On the way-- because I got a pretty good
amount of sleep during that fight-- can I ask
Caleb, before he goes to sleep: Hey, Caleb!
LIAM: Yeah?
LAURA: Could we stick things through the bubble?
LIAM: Ja, you can go out and in, and you can--
sorry. You can put your weapons through it, but no
magic will go in or out. But you can leave and
come back anytime you want.
LAURA: Okay, just checking.
LIAM: But please don't go on any walkabouts while
we are sleeping.
LAURA: I'm not going to, Caleb.
LIAM: But you already did.
LAURA: Well, that was for Caduceus. Don't worry
about it, okay?
LIAM: Do you promise?
LAURA: Of course I promise. I'm going to stay in
here.
LIAM: That is good enough for me. Good night.
LAURA: Good night.
LIAM: (snoring)
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM and TRAVIS: Jesus.
LAURA: 20.
MATT: Jamedi stays up to also take watch with you.
Oh, nice. He sits across the opposite way, and
you're watching this way over his shoulder, and
he's looking over yours and doesn't engage in
conversation, unless you wish to.
LAURA: Have you ever seen those cat things
before?
MATT: "I have seen them my first time passing
through here, yes, but I was quieter."
LAURA: Yeah, we're pretty loud sometimes.
MATT: "You are correct. This has been a bit more
challenging than I originally anticipated."
LAURA: Have you thought at all about the
Traveler?
MATT: "No."
LAURA: Do you want a pamphlet?
MATT: "I am confused as to what you are speaking
of."
LAURA: (whispering) The Traveler.
MATT: "You are strange."
LAURA: He's everywhere.
MATT: "And creepy."
LAURA: He's really great. I'll give you a
pamphlet. I get it out, and I walk it over to him. Here.
MATT: It takes a solid ten seconds of him
inspecting it and looking up at you before he--
LAURA: Just read it over. There's a lot of
information in there. It's really important.
MATT: "Much appreciated."
LAURA: He's here right now.
MATT: Tucks it away into the inside of his vest.
LAURA: Traveler! If you're here, you should show
him you're here so that he will like you even more
than he already does! Just give it a minute.
MATT: (farting noise) You're not quite sure who it
was on that side that let one loose in their
sleep, but the inside of the dome suddenly has a
very fragrant air.
SAM: Dutch oven.
LIAM: To be fair, we all had Indian for dinner
tonight, so it could be any one of us.
LAURA: He has cast his blessing upon us.
MATT: "Really, the most impressive of miracles."
LAURA: How long have you been working for Captain
Avantika?
MATT: "Only for this journey and once before."
LAURA: Do you like her a lot?
MATT: "She pays well. Does not judge."
LAURA: What were you doing before you were working
for her?
MATT: "Working for other people."
LAURA: What's the craziest thing you've ever
done?
MATT: His eyes narrow at you. "I was the only
survivor to the escaping singular mines to the
"north area of the continent. How far have you
traveled outside of the Empire?"
LAURA: I'm from the Menagerie Coast, actually.
MATT: "All right."
LAURA: So that far.
MATT: "I have delved into a few ruins. I have been
lucky enough to survive by working alone. I have
"seen many friends fall and disappear, but I have
made my way. What's the craziest thing you have seen?"
LAURA: Ever? In my life?
MATT: "Sure."
LAURA: Oh shit, I've seen some crazy shit. This
one time I saw a bug carrying a piece of bread
that was like five times its size and he was
carrying it up stairs. Like up and then he would
turn and then it would go up and then he would
turn.
MATT: "Will wonders ever cease?"
(laughter)
MATT: "I'm going to concentrate on our
surroundings for the remainder of our shift if you
"do not mind."
LAURA: Me too.
MATT: He looks out. Now towards the tail end of
your shift as the sunlight begins to slowly peak--
LIAM: It's a slow roll laughter. It took a minute
and then it caught like fire.
(laughter)
MATT: There is some more shifting in the nearby
bushes and you see two figures beginning to
approach the sphere.
LAURA: (whispering) Oh shit!
MATT: "Shh." He gets his short bow ready and nocks
an arrow.
LAURA: (whispering) If they stab through--
MATT: "Maybe. Just shh." As you guys wait you can
see, similar to what you had previously seen in
your travels on this island, two lizard men
armored. One carrying a net that's slung over his
shoulder, the other with a long spear both with
shields off to the side. Not ready for aggression,
but they both approach slowly towards the strange
sphere and begin inspecting it.
LAURA: (whispering) I put my hand on Fjord's leg.
SAM: Upper thigh?
LAURA: Shh.
MATT: (lizard men talking) He pokes it with the
spear. The other one steps forward and licks it.
They both begin to walk around and inspect it,
prod and poke it. Jamedi-- you can see he's just
looking out very intensely, bow notched.
LAURA: (whispering) I poke Beau.
MATT: They both circle around the back end of it,
poke the dome a few more times. One of them picks
up a rock and throws it at it. It skips off of the
exterior of it and rests in a nearby bush. They
both step forward one more time and smell it
closely. They both turn around and begin to make
their way in the opposite direction of where the
dome is set, making their way further into the
jungle clearing. One of them stops and looks back
behind one more time at the dome and turns back
and both of them vanish into the nearby brush.
LAURA: Is it getting light yet?
MATT: It is. There's no sign of the sun but it's
that early morning soft blue that starting to
overtake the evening's night.
LAURA: We should wake up. Everybody should wake
up. We should get out of here before they come
back with more people.
SAM: Who?
LAURA: There were I think-- I couldn't tell. They
were shadowy, but I think they were like lizard
men or snake men.
SAM: Oh gosh.
TALIESIN: All right.
LAURA: Could you tell?
MATT: "I would say that they are probably very
close to the ones we saw before."
LAURA: Which ones? The lizard men or the snake
men?
MATT: "They appear to be of the lizard men
heritage."
LAURA: We should get out of here even though the
lizard men are obviously the weaker of the two. Caleb.
LIAM: Hm?
LAURA: We should get up and get out of here.
LIAM: Yeah, okay.
MARISHA: They know where we are. They can ambush
us.
SAM: Did we get a long rest?
MATT: You did get a long rest.
SAM: Oh good.
LIAM: Okay well, say the word and I'll pull it
down.
TRAVIS: Let's get everything together first.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Jamedi? Following you.
MATT: "All right, collect your belongings." He
goes over and starts disassembling his tent
quickly, rolling it up and putting it into his
pack over his shoulder. You guys gather your things.
LAURA: Should we make the brush look like we
weren't sleeping on it and stuff?
SAM: Why?
LAURA: You know, so that they won't be able to
like--
MATT: Make a survival check, Beau.
MARISHA: Okay. Following Jester's lead--
LIAM: Do the running man in the mud, Beau.
MARISHA: It's not great. Nine.
MATT: There are a series of foot grooves in the
dirt--
MARISHA: Good enough.
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: It doesn't look like anybody slept here. It
looks like a bunch of people kicked here.
LAURA: Okay, good great.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: River dancers.
MATT: Yeah. You gather your things. Jamedi leads
you back towards the jungle. "All right a few more
"hours and I think we'll be in the outskirts of the
village."
LAURA: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us
again.
MATT: All right. So... yes?
SAM: Mr. Jamedi? What are we going to find when we
get there? Are there any baddies?
MATT: "Oh there are plenty of these snake people
where they live. We'll have to be very quiet.
"We'll have to gauge our passage through their town
and try to not be seen. And if we are seen,
"eliminate whoever catches us before it can notify
the rest of them of our presence. Make our way
"towards the central structure. Trust me. You'll
know it when you see it." He looks back to
Avantika and says "And I believe that is the
quarry in which you paid for, beneath that.
"Correct?" Avantika goes "That is correct. In we go
and see where it takes us. So shall we? Jamedi,
"lead the way." "All right come forward." You all
begin to slowly make your way into the jungle as
you cast Pass Without a Trace and we'll come back
at the end of the break.
LAURA: Whoa!
LIAM: Owl on your head.
MATT: There you go.
MARISHA: Oh no god!
MATT: Stealth owl. All right, we're going to take
a quick break and come back to that with that
stealth check and this next leg of the journey
into the island of Urukaxl. Um... what's up?
SAM: The giveaway just happens now. We don't have
to say anything.
MATT: Yeah, well...
SAM: Oh we do?
MATT: No, we do. It's still here.
SAM: Awesome.
MATT: So we have our fantastic Wyrmwood giveaway
tonight. We have-- here we are. So moving forward
you'll have to move into the chat-- that's how
it's been-- move into the Critical Role chat on
Twitch. That's twitch.tv/criticalrole. To win
tonight's awesome Wenge Turquoise Inlay Halloween
Dice Vault.
(Oohs)
LAURA: What does it say?
MATT: It's available now through Halloween on
Kickstarter for it.
MARISHA: Halloween!
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: It needs to be all the time.
MATT: It's a dice vault that keeps all your dice
magnetically held together and it has this cool,
glowing runic sigils on it as well as this glowing
Wyrmwood symbol. You can find these at Wyrmwood on
the Kickstarter currently. The keyword tonight is
jungle. So go ahead and put jungle in once. More
than once you'll be disqualified. Once again, only
available for those in the U.S. and Canada,
excluding Quebec. We're working on it. Anyway
we'll be back here in a few minutes. We'll see you
guys shortly.
MATT: Welcome back everyone. So, before we back
into the story we have our winner for the dice
vault giveaway. Our winner is wolfstarumbra.
TRAVIS: Ooh.
MATT: Now if that doesn't sound like someone's D&amp;D
character, I don't know what does.
Wolfstar, congratulations. We'll get your
information and the dice vault sent out to you.
MARISHA: It's like a synth wave album.
MATT: It is true. We are... wolfstarumbra (synth
noises).
TALIESIN: Wolfstar is a total space cowboy.
MATT: That's true. Sorry, wolfstar.
TALIESIN: Thank you, wolfstar!
ALL: (laughter)
MATT: All right. So now in the early morning
daylight--
LAURA: I'll be right back.
TRAVIS: Okay.
SAM: Oh no.
LAURA: Keep going.
MATT: In the early morning daylight on Urukaxl
Island, you trudge deeper and deeper into the
jungles, as the low mist in the jungle begins to
burn away as the day itself grows warmer. All of
you getting a bit more adjusted to the temperature
and general atmosphere. Beau, you're feeling a
little rough.
MARISHA: Ah?
SAM: What?
MATT: You get this sweating a little bit and this
soreness in your body and this general body pain,
kind of a dull pain throughout.
LIAM: You've got mono.
MARISHA: Nope. I'm great.
MATT: Just kind of (sighs)... you're not quite
sure why it's come over you. Pressing on, Jamedi
leads you for about another hour and a half, two
hours through the jungle before putting his hand
up once more to stop you all. Oh we didn't make
the stealth check actually. Because I said when
come back, yes.
TRAVIS: Pass Without a Trace.
MATT: Pass Without a Trace everybody.
TRAVIS: And do I still have-- no I don't. Not
anymore.
LIAM: Yeah! Natural 20 plus 10!
TRAVIS: Do I have the thing?
SAM: I think that was my--
TALIESIN: Please tell me you've got Pass Without a
Trace up?
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
SAM: That was my seventh four of the night.
TRAVIS: I don't happen to have the blessing on me?
Laura!
LAURA: You rolled with advantage right?
TRAVIS: Do I have a blessing anymore?
MATT: No you've slept.
LAURA: I didn't.
LIAM: The blessing.
TRAVIS: 14.
MATT: 14.
MARISHA: 33.
LIAM: Woo!
TALIESIN: Are you even here?
LIAM: 30. Maxed out. Jeez.
SAM: Laura reminds me that I roll with advantage
so I'm at a 30.
MATT: There you go. Caleb?
LIAM: 30.
LAURA: 34.
TALIESIN: 15.
MATT: Okay and then Yasha. Natural 18, not bad.
SAM: Wow. Stealthy mofos.
MATT: You guys are cruising your way through the
jungle and using that score as you approach,
Jamedi with his hand out behind him stopping you.
Glancing just past his shoulder, you can see the
jungle trees begin to clear and the first thing
that catches your eye beyond this treeline, you
can see a few dozen scattered stone buildings,
most of them in relatively good shape, immediately
coming into view. You can see the stone coloration
is more of a sandstone, yellowish to a dull gray
and white with different materials used to accent
elements of the constructions. This doesn't match
the ruins you previously slept in the night
before. These appear to be fresher. You can see
the verdant green jungle vines and roots begin to
entwine and tangle near the base of some of them
and where it's built looks like parts of the
jungle have grown up around and helped camouflage
elements of this small village. You can see
elements of the exposed stone carry snake-head
obelisks that appear to be softly carved from bits
of a marble material or recovered stone in a
similar way that most of the construction has been
done.
SAM: Does it look like the figurine that I
recovered earlier?
MATT: Similar sculpt and design though larger and
of more detail. You see these obelisks about ten
feet tall and they tend to be markers at different
intersections of travel. You can see probably a
dozen or so folk immediately at this position that
you're at that are wandering through this city.
Some are gathering materials. You can see--
actually up the way across one of these walls, you
see four figures that are strung up by their feet.
You can see the remnants of the lizard men that
are in the process of having the flesh filleted
from their bodies.
ALL: (moans of disgust)
MATT: You see one of the more humanoid ones,
probably one of the hunters that you saw alongside
the snake-armed man, is there with the blade,
stripping it off the bones and sloughing it into a
pile next to it where you hear (squelching) over
on top of each other.
LAURA: Oh that's fucked up. What do the obelisk
eyes look like?
MATT: Make a perception check.
LAURA: Eight.
MATT: Hard to tell at this distance. You'd have to
get a lot closer.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: Who's got the mote this morning? Who
moted? Who dodeca-ed?
LAURA: Oh dang we were going to pass it around.
MARISHA: We were yeah.
LIAM: It's somewhere in the building. We'll find
it.
MARISHA: Okay.
SAM: Give it to Fjord again. This is his day.
LAURA: Okay, Fjord.
TRAVIS: Well I was going to--
LAURA: Stare at it. Look into its eyes.
TRAVIS: You don't want to give it to Caduceus?
TALIESIN: I will not say no to it.
LAURA: Look into its eyes.
TRAVIS: Give it to him.
TALIESIN: I don't know-- oh.
(laughter)
MATT: All right, you take your mote of
possibility.
LIAM: And we are hanging back at this point but
not in the thick of it. We're seeing this all from
a distance? I was thinking about spells. Yeah.
MARISHA: Remember if anything goes down, Fjord and
I will take point. Caduceus, I noticed before it
seemed like you guys were poisoned immediately,
but not lingering?
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, I'm feeling fine.
MARISHA: Are you? I'm not, like, saying anything.
TALIESIN: Why?
MARISHA: What?
TALIESIN: You seem a little--
MARISHA: Nope!
TALIESIN: You sure?
MARISHA: Yep!
TALIESIN: I can do a--
MARISHA: Nope. Great.
SAM: Do you feel okay?
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Does she look okay?
MATT: Make a medicine check.
TALIESIN: 22.
MATT: Looking at her; while all of you are fairly
warm and sweaty, her complexion is paler than you
recall. There is quite a bit of sweat, more so
than expected, that is streaming down her body.
Her vision appears to be not as focused and she's
not making eye contact with you as she speaks to
you. Lids are a bit droopy. She doesn't look
healthy.
TALIESIN: You don't look okay. Are you sure-- you
really don't look okay.
MARISHA: Fuck you.
TRAVIS: Okay.
TALIESIN: Well.
TRAVIS: There might be some leeches in this
jungle. Maybe some ticks?
TALIESIN: I'm just offering something medicinal.
LIAM: I'm ritual casting through this discussion.
MATT: What are you casting?
LIAM: Comprehend Languages.
MARISHA: Do you see red stripes?
TALIESIN: No.
MARISHA: I feel stripey, I don't know why.
TALIESIN: You're clammy and--
LAURA: Should we try to--
SAM and LAURA: Heal you or something?
MARISHA: I'm great. I'm awesome. Are you itchy?
LAURA: Okay, you haven't been around her as much,
when she tells you don't do something-- well,
usually don't do it-- but okay, that's weird.
SAM: Maybe it's a human thing.
LAURA: She's hiding that she's actually not okay.
TALIESIN: Hold on.
MARISHA: (sulky) No.
TALIESIN: You should take this.
MARISHA: (sulkier) No.
SAM: Is it tea, what is that?
TRAVIS: Yeah, what is it? Give her mushrooms.
TALIESIN: Take a look at this, just want to take a
look. Smell it, does it smell bad?
MARISHA: Yeah, you smell bad.
TALIESIN: It's a clever distraction. I'm touching
her and casting Lesser Restoration. Don't think
I've never done this before.
TRAVIS: Smell this. Bip.
MATT: Okay. You finish casting the spell, the
energy subsides, you pull back and there's no
change in her demeanor.
LAURA: Oh no.
MARISHA: Don't touch me.
TALIESIN: I apologize. That's weird, though.
LAURA: Oh I'm sorry, I was wrong: she's just a
bitch.
MARISHA: I get that a lot.
TALIESIN: You really don't look okay. Just for
fun, really quickly--
MATT: Based on your medicine check, it looks to be
not a toxin. This is more of a disease taking hold.
TALIESIN: Just out of curiosity, one check for
undead really quickly.
MARISHA: I'm diseased!
LAURA: Oh no, Beau.
MATT: For the time being, just as a note, as this
is coming to be noticed, all of your constitution
saving throws are at disadvantage.
MARISHA: Oh great!
TRAVIS: Did you get hit in the fight?
TALIESIN: No.
MARISHA: No. I just--
LAURA: You must have caught something from weird
bugs.
TALIESIN: Does Eyes of the Grave show anything
here?
MATT: No.
TALIESIN: Okay.
LAURA: Oh, you got malaria!
TALIESIN: All right. I did what I can. Does it
seem contagious?
MATT: Not from what you can tell. You're not
entirely certain what the disease is.
LAURA: Oh no, Beau! I'm just not going to stand
near you, okay?
MARISHA: That's okay.
MATT: It's some sort of an insect-distributed
jungle ailment.
MARISHA: It's the con plague. We just got back
from New York.
TALIESIN: You joke, but like a third of our people
are down. It's very empty out there.
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: It's just Ed.
TRAVIS: And nanny fell, too.
MATT: But at least she got to watch our driver
almost beat up that guy.
TRAVIS: That's true!
TALIESIN: Too much for me.
TRAVIS: Didn't know the Incredible Hulk was in
this motherfucker, did you?
MATT: That was amazing. Anyway, back to task.
TALIESIN: Yeah, just be careful what you touch for
a little while, we need--
MARISHA: I'm always careful with what I touch.
I've... Let's just keep moving.
MATT: As you guys slightly press forward, Jamedi
showing you a bit of a path off to the side. He
glances towards the path where he was going and
one thing that catches your attention is you've
seen the men with the snake arms, you've seen the
folk with the scaled skin patches. What you see
now, towards this one stairway portion that now
leads to what you previously didn't see below the
tree line, but a massive stone structure beset by
these stairs on each of its five sides. Envision
like a semblance of an Aztec pyramid, but a
five-side shape that levels off at the top and
there are stairs on each of these five sides. At
the base of the nearest one, you see less of a man
and more of a giant snake, maybe twelve to fifteen
feet long, coiled and muscular. But to a humanoid
torso with two heavy log-like arms that rest at
its sides. One resting on this large sheathed
scimitar-like blade, its head curled up into this
heavy, straight serpent snake-like mouth as its
jaw kind of hangs open and its tongue (hissing
noise). It's just keeping an eye and it slithers
across the road, bowing from side to side as it
looks across the tree line.
TRAVIS: At the base of the structure it's doing
that?
MATT: The base of the structure. You're seeing a
variety of these snake people going about their
lives. This one is just keeping a watch in that
one element and Jamedi you can hear curse under
his breath. "It was the path I took to the inside
last time. We're going to have to improvise. Which
"way do you want to go?"
SAM: We're trying to get into the center of this,
all of this?
MATT: Avantika's like, "Of course, inside that big
thing right there."
TRAVIS: Okay, so if-- I'll go over to Jamedi. If
we can clear him, is the path you've taken before
clear as far as you can see. I don't know which
way you went?
MATT: "As far as I can remember it was fairly
clear but it is also-- I had to ensure that there
"was not many watching. They have these-- like
right there." He points over the side and you can
see along the stairs almost like
a withered person. You see them, like a smaller
human, hunched forward, their body a light green
tint to itself, kind of this wrinkled, scaled
body, its neck protruding and curved outward. It
looks what a-- like the lizard folk you had seen
earlier but with a longer neck and almost
geriatric in the way they carry themselves
forward, lumbering. Carrying a large spear and
appears to be watching like a sentinel across the
upper portion of this large stone structure.
LAURA: So it's got a lizard face? Not like a human
face with a really long neck?
MATT: From what you can tell from this distance,
it's hard to see but it looks to be more serpent
and more snake-like.
LAURA: Like the Beetlejuice part where his head
goes--
TRAVIS: Can anyone create a distraction that
doesn't put their own person at risk?
SAM: Sure.
MARISHA: Jester.
MATT: And you can see there's about four or so
buildings between where you are and the base of
the structure. There's a small village that
surrounds the base of this temple. And so you guys
have to find your way through this city.
LAURA: This city without being seen? There's a big
group of us.
TRAVIS: It's not us, clearing, and then the
building. There's stuff.
LAURA: Can we make ourselves look like the snake
people?
SAM: Sure! Some us can.
MARISHA: I can't.
TRAVIS: Although we could throw you in a net and
act like you were dinner.
SAM: Yes, yes.
MARISHA: Okay.
LAURA: What's wrong with that?
TRAVIS: Who's got a net?
LAURA: Hey you two, can you make yourself look
like snake people?
MATT: Avantika goes, "Uh, that is not really a
specialty of mine. However, I'm very good at not
"being seen." And Jamedi goes, "It's also my
specialty. Perhaps we can come from a different
"direction, smaller group. The two of us can meet
on the way."
MARISHA: You know what, maybe I could go with
them.
LIAM: I did not prepare the spell to disguise
myself. I thought we would be fighting monster
people, so...
MARISHA: Such a bitch. Sucks.
LIAM: What?
MARISHA: Saying that as a person. I'm just
commiserating. Moving on.
LIAM: Are you Marisha or--
MARISHA: I was, yeah. How about I go with these
guys, with Jamedi and Avantika?
MATT: They both look at you and say, "The whole
point of this was to make it a small group. The
"more we add to this group, the harder it is for us
to do this."
MARISHA: Three is a small group.
LAURA: Can you be invisible?
TRAVIS: How many of us can change? One, two,
three, four.
SAM: But not these two.
TRAVIS: Awesome, great. Two of us, one each take,
tie them up in rope--
SAM: As prisoners. They're humans, they're
disgusting, filthy pink skins.
LAURA: But still we move really stealthily.
SAM: Oh wait, Yasha.
MATT: Yasha's just sitting there with her arms
crossed just listening to the whole conversation going--
SAM: Can you change your appearance?
MATT: "I mean, kind of."
TRAVIS: Kind of?
LAURA: I don't think she can do it like we think.
MATT: "Like, the wings?"
TRAVIS: Yeah, that's less of what we're looking
for.
SAM: We could make a distraction. Some of us can
snakey.
LAURA: Maybe we do separate into smaller groups
and try to stealth it.
SAM: The ones who can't change can go first and
we'll make a distraction and then the ones who can
can just walk in after.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: Oh my god, okay.
LIAM: Comforting.
SAM: You'll have Yasha with you. And Beau to
protect you.
TALIESIN: But without you, they're not going to be
as sneaky. We have to stay together if we're going
to want to be super stealthy.
LAURA: That's a really good point.
TALIESIN: Together probably is better.
SAM: They won't have to be sneaky if we make
enough of a distraction, right?
LAURA: What if we don't make a distraction. We
make them look like prisoners, we still try to be
sneaky, but then if we're caught, then we have an
excuse.
SAM: All right. All in favor of that plan?
TRAVIS: Sure.
SAM: That's one vote.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LIAM: What do we think that these beings' reaction
will be to not lizard-people being on this island
all of a sudden?
TALIESIN: Or for that matter, if we can't speak to
them?
LAURA: I think they will probably try to--
LIAM: You think it's an every day or every week or
month occurrence? I think we're probably pretty
special here.
LAURA: I think they might try to kill us and then
eat us like that guy over there.
TRAVIS: I think we should try and be as sneaky as
possible. If for some reason shit hits the fan, I
can make a pretty, I think, spectacular
distraction that doesn't put me or us at risk. But
I think we should try stealth first.
TALIESIN: Stealth with a couple emergency back-up
snake looking people.
TRAVIS: Stealth, distraction, fuck shit up. Cool?
MARISHA: Okay, so--
SAM: Can you make a distraction far away from us?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARISHA: If Caleb and I move together, you have
your Message spell that you can send back and
forth to Nott.
TALIESIN: We all have to move together.
MARISHA: Oh, that's what we're doing?
LAURA: Well you guys aren't as stealthy without
being within 30 feet of me--
SAM: Oh boy.
MARISHA: Maybe we do the live bait thing, I don't
know.
TRAVIS: What, act like you're tied up?
MARISHA: Maybe.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we'll do it anyway.
TALIESIN: That's if they see us.
TRAVIS: We'll tie your hands in the front.
TALIESIN: If they don't see us, it doesn't matter
what they look like.
MARISHA: Okay, okay.
LIAM: I think that if anyone that looks like me or
you shows up on this island, anyone who sees it
is going to come asking questions immediately.
TRAVIS: I agree.
LAURA: What if-- do any of the people we see
walking around, do any of them wear cloaks?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: That's not a bad thought.
LAURA: 14.
MATT: Looking around, you don't see many cloaks.
The weather here is warm enough to the point where
there isn't the need to bundle. There's no need
for hoods because the society here wants to make
sure they can very quickly identify who's a part
of their faction and who isn't. So yeah, there's
no cloaks. You see what are like open robes,
simple bits of cloth just to cover aspects of the
body for protection from the sun or otherwise, but
beyond that it's mostly just skin and scales.
LAURA: But there are some people that look just
like people?
MATT: There are people that look mostly like
people from a distance, but upon closer look,
their skin in places that gets a greener hue in
patches, their eyes are yellow. Very snake-like
eyes. Sharper teeth.
LAURA: I will use my disguise kit and try to make
it look like they've got scales on them. They will
probably know the people in their own fucking
village, though. Let's be honest.
TRAVIS: Are there several dozen people, or is
it--
MATT: Now that you've watched, the first view you
had was only the first few buildings in front of
you. Now that you've stepped forward and glanced,
you can see there's maybe about 30 to 40 buildings
that sit around the base of this entire temple.
You've seen a few dozen in the streets, so the
society here, you can assume somewhere in the
neighborhood of like one to three hundred people
live in the city total.
TRAVIS: Let's do that, yeah.
MARISHA: That's a lot of people.
TRAVIS: I'll use Mask of Many Faces to look like
one of those fucks and let's try to paint some
scales on the non-changeling folks.
LAURA: (makes blipping noises)
MATT: Okay, so you're applying them to Yasha and
Beau and Caleb?
LIAM: And the clothes we've seen on these people
are like what? They're purple robes you've mentioned?
MATT: Purple robes, simple cloth skirts. Most of
the whole thing that's worn there is for general
protection and adornment. You can see jewelry
adorning some of them, but it's very simple and
it's more for purpose than anything extravagant or
presentational.
LIAM: (groaning) I begin to put-- ugh-- my spell
books into Fjord's bag.
TRAVIS: Of Holding?
LIAM: Yeah, I can't have ornate book holsters
and-- ugh. Trying to make myself look as simple as possible.
LAURA: Disguise Self!
MATT: Avantika goes, "I'll be watching. Au
revoir." And she kind of--
TRAVIS: Where are you going? Where are we meeting?
At the temple? At the top?
MATT: "I figure the top of that would be a very
effective place to meet. Is that not correct? That
is where you entered last time, non?" She turns
to Jamedi, who's keeping low to the ground and
goes, "That is indeed where I was. There is a room
inside there I could not walk into. I could not
find a way through. That is when I returned. So
we'll meet there." Avantika goes "Au revoir."
Waves her hand through the air, and marks a few
symbols and you watch as she disappears.
LIAM: I had that spell once.
SAM: Are these guys painted green? Is that what
we're doing?
MATT: That's what we're going to find out right
now! You're proficient with your disguise kit, so
it's proficiency bonus plus I'll say dexterity
check to see how well you can apply these details
to their bodies. Roll for each one of them.
LIAM: I'll look like a 1980s Halloween costume.
Come on.
MATT: For Caleb?
MARISHA: State fair, all the way.
LIAM: Make me look like Spiderman.
LAURA: Eight.
MATT: Caleb has these green circles on his face in
splotches. And you're like, "Great!" For Beau?
LAURA: Okay, that's way better. 17.
MATT: Beau, actually, pretty good job; the
linework and shading you had done in these various
patches on the inside of the brow line helps make
her look a little more snakelike. You've sunken
the jowls, you've done the scattered patches with
the patchmarks.
LIAM: You look pretty convincing. How do I look?
MARISHA: Polio?
LAURA: Now that I'm seeing how good I did on Beau,
I'm realizing how shitty Caleb is, but I'm not
going to tell him.
LIAM: What do you mean-- what did you say?
MATT: Yasha seems strangely excited. "Me next, me
next."
LAURA: Okay, okay. Oh.
TRAVIS: Is that a one? Shit. God-- why did you
roll out that big fucker?
SAM: It was good before!
LAURA: This one's from Sam!
MATT: You guys look amongst yourselves while she's
working on Yasha, and finally she finishes, and
voila! Pulls back, and it's just Grinch. Just
green, head to toe. Bright green. It's pretty bad.
But you feel pretty confident about it.
LAURA: You look amazing. It's a really good color
on you.
MATT: Yasha goes, "Okay. Let's do this."
SAM: I'm going to grab Caleb and be like: You're
going to be fine out there. It's going to be fine.
Just think like a lizard, right?
LAURA: What do you mean she looks bad? I think she
looks really good, Caleb.
SAM: I'm going to take some flowers and just stick
one in his hair for good luck.
LIAM: Is that better?
SAM: I don't know. It's good luck, though!
LIAM: I lean in, way in, to Nott's ear, and say:
(whispering) Oh, by the way, Caduceus says that
Jamedi is actually a dead thing.
SAM: What?! What?! No, but what? Shit! Why are
we following him, then?!
MARISHA: I lean in and say, Are we whispering
now? We whispering again?
SAM: No, they're gone!
LIAM: (whispering) I was telling Nott that Jamedi
is a dead thing. Caduceus says Jamedi's dead.
MARISHA: What?
LIAM: (whispering) Keep it on the DL.
MARISHA: The dead-low?
SAM: Why are we following him?
LAURA: Just because he's dead doesn't mean he's a
bad guy.
LIAM: (whispering) Are you whispering too?
LAURA: Yes, of course I am!
LIAM: (whispering) We don't have a choice!
SAM: What if he came here, was killed, and was
sent to come get us to bring us back as feeding
for whatever's down there?
LIAM: (whispering) What if we let the pirate queen
tie rocks to our feet and we're dead?! We have to
do this! We can kill them later!
TRAVIS: Agreed.
MATT: "Agreed."
SAM: Ah! You're still here?! Shit!
MATT: "Well, I hadn't left yet. I was curious to
see your--"
SAM: Did you know? Where are you?
MATT: You don't see, the voice is coming from
nowhere.
SAM: Is Jamedi here?
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM: 18.
MATT: Looking around, you do not see Jamedi
immediately in the vicinity.
MARISHA: Is he on speakerphone?
MATT: No, this is Avantika.
SAM: Avantika! Did you know he was dead?
TALIESIN: Specifically he was not telling you,
because I knew you were going to panic.
SAM: Did you know he was a dead guy?
MATT: "I was not aware, but now I am very curious
as to where you found this information and what
"you think this means."
TALIESIN: I just know things. I don't know what it
means. I was trying to find a moment to figure out
if you knew, or if we should tell you, or if this
was part of some sort of plan. I hadn't figured it
out, and for some reason, I had not realized that
I was walking around with a bunch of gossips.
Well, it's what I get, I suppose, for trying to be
sneaky about things.
TRAVIS: Nice job. He's going to fucking leave
again. Good job.
MARISHA: Whose side are you on?
TALIESIN: I've been doing my best not to be thrown
by it. It seems like he's been standing up all right.
MATT: "He's done work for me before, and was
successful."
LAURA: He's pretty cool.
SAM: Has he always been dead? Is this a recent
thing? Where are you?
MATT: "Don't worry about it. But nevertheless, he
has done his job so far. I assume we just keep a
"close eye. If ever he decides to give any sign of
turning on any of us, well, it's eight against one."
TRAVIS: Indeed. I'll take out several feet of rope
from the bag of holding and say: We should do this
before he achieves the destination. Forward.
MATT: "See you on the other side." And you watch
as the dust-- (puffing) the footprints.
TALIESIN: This is why I was trying to keep it on
the down-low.
SAM: Why?
TALIESIN: I knew that certain members of the party
may get a little excited. I, myself, had a moment
of panic. Had a moment of panic myself. I've been
keeping it contained.
LAURA: You feel okay now?
TALIESIN: No, there's a dead guy walking around
with us. That's unsettling. That's unsettling to
my very core, I've got to admit, but you know.
LAURA: Well, now we just have to go walk around
snake people and not be seen, so that's fine.
TALIESIN: It's an improvement, at the very least.
MARISHA: Hey, Fjord. Avantika can go invisible or
peek into what we're saying. Can you do that?
TRAVIS: No. Well, kind of. Not really. No.
MARISHA: How much have you heard?
TRAVIS: I mean, I can pop in and out, but--
LIAM: We've seen you flit about.
TRAVIS: Yeah, that one.
LAURA: But you can't hear what's on the other side
when you're popping in and out, can you? Oh, yes
you can! That's right, you can.
TALIESIN: How many fingers am I holding up?
TRAVIS: None.
TALIESIN: Oh. I forgot to-- I'm really distracted
right now. I don't know why I bother.
LAURA: We should probably get pretty snaking on
here.
TRAVIS: We'll put two in the front, two in the
back, and put these three in the--
LAURA: In the middle.
MATT: Your Pass Without a Trace has probably faded
at this point, with the travel you've made so you
have to recast it to get the spell bonus.
LAURA: You guys, we should probably do it again?
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
LIAM: Yeah.
LAURA: (singing) Pass pass pass pa-pass. I give
Yasha the Blessing of the Trickster.
TRAVIS: Good call.
MATT: Everyone make a stealth check, please.
MARISHA: Hang on, hang on, real quick: (clearing
throat) Real talk, for just a second. If Yasha
comes with us, and we puppet her, and she dies,
Ashley's going to be real mad. Just pointing this
out last time, because we did this with Pike. Not
saying one way or the other! Just saying, we're
going to continue on with Yasha? Okay. Done. Done.
That's all I'm going to say.
SAM: She's going to be in a defensive stance for
most of the fight.
TRAVIS: She'll be fine. I'll pilot her.
LAURA: I would say let's text her, but she's in
another country, so she probably wouldn't get it.
MATT: Stealth checks, guys.
TRAVIS: 21.
MARISHA: Fuck!
TRAVIS: Pass Without a Trace.
MARISHA: 20.
LIAM: 25.
SAM: Oh, I get advantage. 30. No! 38.
LIAM: Rogues, man, rogues!
TRAVIS: What? Natural one?
TALIESIN: 26.
SAM: She's a lizard person; she'll be fine.
MATT: And for Yasha, if you want to roll twice?
TRAVIS: 25. Natural 15.
LAURA: At least I look like a snake person.
SAM: You're going to be a loud snake person.
That's fine.
MATT: You all begin to make your way towards the
first set of buildings. There's that one
individual that's flaying the bodies of the
lizardmen. Has made their way through two of them.
There are two more that are in the process of
being stripped. There is one street that breaks
through two of the ones closest to you. Do you
wish to take that path? What do you wish to do to
stealth in? Because part of the pathway here is
out in the open, so you'd have to gauge your timing.
TRAVIS: Describe the two again?
MATT: Where you are now, towards the main stairway
that leads at the top, you have about two streets
or three sets of buildings to get through. The
ones closest to you, there are two large buildings
that are immediately towards your side. One side
has nobody around it. The other one has one
individual that is currently flaying the hanging
corpses of the four lizardmen.
TRAVIS: I vote for the one guy flaying the
lizardmen.
MARISHA: Agreed.
LAURA: Because he's distracted?
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm. And it's one guy.
LAURA: The other one has no guys.
TRAVIS: That never is no guys.
LAURA: Okay. I follow your lead, captain.
TRAVIS: Let's go that way. We'll go towards the
flaying.
MATT: Okay. You make your way, exiting the jungle
way, and are you going quickly and quietly so
nobody notices or are you strolling through, using
your stealth as a means of trying to keep any sort of--
TRAVIS: Trying to blend in.
MATT: Got you. Okay. All of you move forward. Are
you dragging them behind by ropes?
MARISHA: No, we're in the middle. We're Assassin's
Creeding it.
MATT: Got you.
TRAVIS: If there is a building to walk beside, I
would prefer to have our shittily drawn and one
very nice one closest to the building with us on
the outside.
MARISHA: Uh-huh. Yeah, I'll be the barrier.
TRAVIS: Mama elephants and then baby elephants.
MARISHA: Aww, yeah!
MATT: You guys cluster and begin to shift as this
herd of snakefolk making your way towards that direction.
TRAVIS: Oh god, oh god, oh god.
MATT: As the light hits you as you leave the
branches of the jungle and begin shifting, fully
open now in the middle of the midday sun,
immediately you feel the heat on the back of your
neck and shoulders begin to grow hotter and hotter
as the nerves build up inside. You cruise through
the open area, and to the left you hear a (whip
cracking). You glance over and you can see another
one of those massive, mostly-snake, serpentine
hulking individuals is currently wielding a whip.
There is a cluster of lizardmen that are currently
chained and are currently pushing on a heavy bar
that is dragging a large piece of stone out of the
jungle and towards the center of the city. They're
bent into slave labor for these people. They are
now pushing it forward. That catches you off guard
for a minute, but you continue to focus and move
forward. As you get closer, you can hear the slick
sound of the flesh being pulled from the back of
the lizardman's body-- (wet ripping)
TRAVIS: Aww, yeah!
MATT: Onto the side-- (coughing) Had me a little
bit of spittle on that one. (coughing) Pardon me.
Moving around the side, the figure finishes and
throws it, and glances over and looks at your
group. Starts looking somewhat curiously as you
pass.
SAM and LAURA: (hissing)
MATT: Make a deception check, Jester.
LAURA and TRAVIS: Why?
LAURA: Because I rolled a shitty stealth, that's
why. Oh no.
MATT: Yasha's going to make a deception check as
well.
LAURA: (gasp) Natural 20!
MATT: All right. Yasha rolled pretty high on that,
actually. The figure goes back to its work and
begins carving it. You move past that into the
first street walkway. It moves on for about
fifteen or so feet and then it has a crosspath. It
goes to the right and the left, and ahead it goes
to another set of buildings behind, and there is
an alley that turns to the right and it seems to
end at that point. So you have a T intersection
before you, and then it ends and curves to the
right. Where do you go?
LIAM: So an intersection to go through to get to
the right turn past it?
MARISHA: I see. So it's like a cross-T
intersection?
MATT: Right. You keep moving and then there's a
right and left, or you keep moving and then it
turns to the right.
TRAVIS: Are there any windows, doors, anything on
these buildings?
MATT: You see open squares. There's no glass
panes, but there are carved rectangles removed.
TRAVIS: Can we move up to the side of one and
glance in as we slow down just a little bit to
peek through?
MARISHA: On this T intersection?
TRAVIS: No, before we get to the intersection.
LAURA: Just to be clear: I always thought that a T
intersection was an intersection like this.
MATT, TRAVIS and MARISHA: Four-way stop.
MATT: That's my fault. It's a lower-case t!
Lower-case t.
LAURA: No, no, no, I get it. I just wanted to make
sure.
MATT: Sorry, I meant a cross intersection.
LIAM: Don't you listen to her.
MATT: No, it's fine. It's an important
clarification. That's my brain fart, man. I
appreciate the backup. But yeah, you're right on
that.
LAURA: Okay.
MARISHA: Okay, guru Liam. Yeah. Liam from Ojai.
MATT: Namaste.
LIAM: I'm going to go listen to your tapes, your
level seven tapes.
TALIESIN: A most expeditious movement towards the
temple, I suppose, would be the--
TRAVIS: Do we look in the window?
MATT: As he's saying this, you glance to the
window to your left, and as you look in, make a
perception check.
LAURA: Ooh!
TRAVIS: Ugh, seven.
MATT: You glance inside, and it's a simple
interior. There's a little bit of sunlight coming
through from the opposite side of it from the
direction of the light in the sky. It frames
ambiently the outside of a figure that appears to
be humanoid that is sitting over a table, and you
can hear some grinding or carving sound, but its
faced away from you. Looks to be some sort of workshop.
TRAVIS: Keep going?
SAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: All right, we'll push through.
MATT: You push towards the first intersection.
MARISHA: Can I see the tower-- the temple at all,
above the buildings?
MATT: Yeah, you can see the top of the temple from
here.
MARISHA: Okay, does this curve look like we're
still heading the right way?
MATT: It'll start making towards the nearest
stairway that leads towards the top.
LIAM: It's just the bottom of the structure that
curves around.
MATT: As you approach the T-intersection, you hear
this murmuring of conversation coming from the
left-hand side of it. (whispering)
LIAM: I cast Comprehend Languages.
MATT: You do, and you pick it up. It is Abyssal.
LIAM: Abyssal?
LAURA: Oh! No, Yasha can't--
SAM: Yasha can speak that, no?
MATT: I don't know, if you had her character
sheet, you would have the benefits of knowing
that. But, not my responsibility. So you pick you
on it and the muttering is akin to, "Come, we have
"to pick up the hunts. The food stores are running
dry this season." As that comes to you, you glance
up to the side and you guys watch as two figures
round the corner. They're both mostly human in
body, though their bodies are scaled and a dull
green-gray color. Their heads, fully serpentine,
snake jaws-- the hood's not open, but retracted--
and they both have, strapped across their
shoulders and torsos, longbows that are at rest,
and they have quivers filled with arrows. They
walk past and glance over at the rest of your
crew. Make a deception check, Jester.
SAM and LAURA: (hissing)
LAURA: Big money. Okay, okay. 22.
MATT: Yasha as well. The disguise didn't quite go
well, and Yasha and Caleb-- even in the clustered
section-- catches some attention. The first one
keeps walking. The second one glances over and
looks to the rest of you and, "Hey!" You hear in
Abyssal, "Hey, what've you got?" You guys hear (Abyssal).
TRAVIS: As that one turns, I'll turn to Yasha and
I'll go (hisses) and punch her in the face and
say, "Go down!"
MATT: She goes (grunting). She's not used to
rolling with the punch.
LIAM: You're going to take a dive.
MATT: She goes down and the figure looks up, its
eyes narrowing and the tongue (slurping).
TRAVIS: Stand over Yasha, take the rope, and start
tying her hands together.
MATT: "Wait," to the other one, who stops, looks
back and goes-- begins to walk towards you,
keeping a hand on the bow.
LAURA: I cast Hold Person.
TRAVIS: Oh no!
LAURA: Sorry, I already said it. At 3rd-level.
MATT: On both of them?
LAURA: Yes.
MATT: That's a failure; that's a 12. Oh, that's
cocked. And a natural four. They both fail. They
both freeze in place.
LAURA: We should tie them up and then go.
TRAVIS: We're in the middle of the street. We
can't tie them up. We've got to go.
LAURA: We're in the middle of the street?
MATT: You're in the middle of the street.
LAURA: Let's go. Let's walk quickly.
MARISHA: Run.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we're picking up and moving
expeditiously away.
LAURA: I really should've charmed them instead of
held them, but let's go.
TRAVIS: Yeah, or distraction.
SAM: Want to do a distraction now?
TRAVIS: Not now. We've got to go.
LIAM: Distraction is them.
MATT: They are currently paralyzed in the middle
of the street for the next minute. Once they're
released, they're going to do whatever they do.
TRAVIS: Do we seen anyone else around besides
those two?
MATT: Right now? Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: Oh, 20.
MATT: Glancing about at this moment, the only
other figure you can see near this intersection is
one of the patrolling, hunched creatures you saw
up on the temple itself on the second tier, and
it's currently walking away from you and doesn't
seem to be paying attention.
LAURA: Grab them.
LIAM: Yeah, actually, we should chase them and
kill them because they could actually snap out of
it at any second.
SAM: We should kill them?
TRAVIS and LIAM: Kill them.
LAURA: Grab them; slit their throats.
TRAVIS: They're large beings, right?
SAM, LAURA, and MARISHA: Pull them off the
street.
SAM: Okay, Yasha.
MATT: Hold on. While you guys are deciding on
this, every turn they get to make a save.
LIAM: Yeah, that's right.
MATT: Natural two and 11 plus two, 13. Yeah,
they're still held.
TRAVIS, LAURA, and MARISHA: Pull them off the
street.
SAM: You and Yasha should pull them off the
MATT: You guys lift their arms and pull them off.
MARISHA: Weekend at Bernie's.
SAM: Are there any doors around here?
MATT: The building to the left of you was the one
that you saw the craftsman in. The one to the
right, you can see there is an open doorway.
LAURA: Is there anybody in there?
SAM: Let's just go in?
MATT: All right, you drag them over.
TALIESIN: I'm going to walk forwards first to peek
in because I look like a snake.
MATT: Okay, make a perception check.
TALIESIN: All right. That's terrible, 11.
MATT: You glance inside. You can see what looks to
be a pile of rags on a small table in the corner,
but nobody else appears to be in there.
LAURA: Inside.
TRAVIS: Yep.
MATT: All right. You guys pull them inside.
LAURA: Wrap them up.
MATT: Another 11 plus two, 13, failure. An eight
plus two; they're still--
LAURA: Okay, tie them up as much as we can and
then gag their mouths. Toss them in a corner.
TRAVIS: We're working the rope.
MARISHA: Should we kill them?
LIAM: Ja. They would kill us; we watched them
skinning the inhabitants of this--
MATT: That's a five.
SAM: Will they wake up if we hurt them now?
MATT: 15.
TRAVIS: Fuck it. I summon the sword, I run over,
and I shove it into his chest.
MATT: What's your DC?
LAURA: 15.
MATT: One of them succeeds.
LAURA: We're already tying him.
MATT: You're in the process of it.
MARISHA: He kills one guy. I snap the other guy's
neck.
MATT: The guys that's paralyzed, going ahead and
attack.
TRAVIS: I plunged the sword into his chest.
MATT: Attack twice, each time with advantage.
TRAVIS: Okay, with advantage.
MATT: Both hits are crits because he is
paralyzed.
TRAVIS: Amazing. That is a 16?
MATT: 16 hits.
TRAVIS: Are they automatic crits?
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Oh, the damage is a crit. The second one
is a 23. Yeah, 23 is the highest one.
MATT: Yep, both hit, both crit.
TRAVIS: Both hit, both crit, okay.
MARISHA: You said one saved?
MATT: One saved.
LAURA: But we were putting things into their
mouths.
MATT: You were tying them up and (gasping) begins
to-- but we'll get to that in just a minute.
TRAVIS: 29.
MATT: You carve through him. These are more ranged
hunters; they're not as hardy as some of the other
ones out there, and this one, you manage to in
just two quick swings, carve through the chest and
take down most of the throat-- just tears open. It
crumples to the ground, dead. The other, who is
currently being bound, (snarling), begins to start
making noise and getting ready to--
LIAM: Are we in a stone room?
MATT: You're inside a stone room.
LIAM: Is there wood?
MATT: There's not much in the way of wood. It's
mostly stone in here.
LIAM: Fire Bolt.
TRAVIS and LAURA: No!
MATT: Fire Bolt or Fireball?
LIAM: Bolt.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: Wouldn't that still make noise?
MATT: It'll make a little bit.
MARISHA: Great, so let's just fucking kill really
stealthily really fast!
MATT: Go ahead and roll an attack, everyone who's
doing this.
SAM: I'm shooting with a crossbow.
MATT: Okay, it is definitely flanked, so you get a
sneak attack, but you don't have advantage on it
because it is not fully bound.
SAM: 22 to hit?
MATT: That hits.
MARISHA: 24.
MATT: Hits.
LIAM: 17.
MARISHA: Six damage; I'm going to stun him.
MATT: Natural nine, fails.
SAM: 17 damage.
MATT: What's the Fire Bolt do?
LIAM: It's 2d10, which is 19.
MATT: Okay. You watch as he (grunting) freezes up
from the stun and then (gasping) takes a bolt to
the throat. The eyes begin to roll back as a Fire
Bolt blasts in its chest, and you watch as it
burns the edges of its face up in cinders. It goes
quiet before limping to the ground, the smoke
coming up from its smoldering corpse.
TRAVIS: Out.
LAURA: Cover him up!
MATT: At this point, the rags in the corner begin
to shift as you watch what appears to be an
individual sleeping in the corner begins to come
to and it (raspy breathing)--
MARISHA: God, go.
MATT: Look up, and you can see what looks to be a
more humanoid-- one of the most humanoid of the
ones ones you've seen there, but with the scales--
what you managed to make yourself look like--
begins to come to consciousness and goes
(snarling).
LAURA: Oh, shit.
MARISHA: Does he see us?
MATT: Yeah, you woke him the middle of his sleep.
LAURA: Charm Person!
SAM: Jesus.
MATT: That is 15. it succeeds.
MARISHA: You're supposed to be better at this.
LAURA: Somebody do fucking something, because he
shook it off.
MATT: (snarling)
MARISHA: Throat punch!
MATT: Go for it. The words you hear are, "Who are
you? Help!" as the shout is beginning to come out,
but you go ahead and--
MARISHA: Uh-huh, 15.
MATT: Yeah, 15, that hits.
MARISHA: Stun.
MATT: That's a failure, yeah.
MARISHA: Uh-huh, he's stunned.
MATT: Stuns in the bed.
TALIESIN: (sigh) Sacred Flame.
MATT: All right. This individual doesn't have a
lot of hit points, so let's say for the sake of
brevity here, being stunned, you guys quickly--.
Yep. However, it did have the opportunity to shout
out one phrase. We'll see if the guard heard it.
SAM: Oh boy.
TRAVIS: You know what'd be great right now? A
distraction. Maybe fire?
MATT: It's a natural 15.
SAM: Set fire to the house?
LIAM: It's all stone.
TRAVIS: It is all stone? There's no wood? There's
no nothing?
MATT: Inside this chamber, it's all stone.
There're stone tablets that have been carved and
then placed up against each other. There's
occasional scenes you can see through, and the
ceiling above appears to be slats of stone that
have been placed in a lattice formation.
MARISHA: I pull out all of the cherry bombs that I
have and I go-- fucking fireworks!
LAURA: But wait, maybe nobody heard.
TRAVIS: Let's just get out.
SAM: Is there any hole in the ceiling or anything?
Is there a roof?
TRAVIS: Ceiling stone too?
MATT: The ceiling, looking up-- there is no second
floor or anything, and it looks like it's just a
continuation of stone. It looks like a series of
thin slats have been placed one next to the other
in a layering to create a ceiling.
TALIESIN: Back door?
MATT: No, this entrance is the only way in and
out. There's a window--
TRAVIS: Out.
TALIESIN: I'm going to quickly grab two arrows
from one of the dead lizards and stick them in his
chest, and I'm going to walk out. I want to go--
yeah.
SAM: It was a suicide.
LAURA: Maybe they all fought each other.
MATT: You guys turn the corner, and as you exit,
you can see that large, looming, slithering snake
figure with the huge scimitar that's probably 15
foot from tip of tail to nose. Thick, burly body,
slithering its way towards you.
SAM: Like, can see us?
MARISHA: Yeah, what do you mean towards us?
MATT: Meaning whatever noise, this figure
managed-- I rolled high on its perception-- to
pick up the sound of its call, and it's making its
way in your direction.
TRAVIS: Okay. I will point down the street away
from us and go (hissing) and cast Major Image, and
I will summon the image of a manticore, a large
manticore roaring and thrashing in the streets.
LAURA: Oh, that's tight.
MATT: All right, full sound and everything?
Because Major Image you can do the full spread--
TRAVIS: The whole shebang-- make sound, it smells,
the whole thing.
MATT: So now, suddenly, in the middle of this
room, all of you turn and look and see as a
full-grown manticore, akin to the one that you
battled not that long ago beneath the mines near
Alfield, you see wings unfurl (roaring). All of a
sudden, all eyes in the city shift to this
creature. In a matter of moments, you can see
arrows being loosed in its direction, hitting the
ground near it. The snake that was approaching you
spins around, begins to draw its scimitar (snarl)
and it begins to approach.
TRAVIS: (shouting) Go!
SAM: On us, or on the--?
TRAVIS and MATT: Manticore.
SAM: Great, let's run.
LAURA: We run away.
MATT: You put that behind where the serpent was?
TRAVIS: Yes, so he has to turn and move away from
us.
MATT: Okay. You guys arc in the completely
opposite direction heading towards where the base
of this temple is. There is another one of those
that is currently at the bottom of the stairway
that is making its way in your direction.
LAURA: I point at the manticore.
MATT: You point at the manticore?
TRAVIS: I can't. I point at the manticore. No, you
did it.
MATT: She's the one who did it.
LAURA: Hey man, I look like a snake person!
MATT: Make a deception check.
SAM: This is going to be great.
MATT: The DC's low on these because you're
disguised.
TALIESIN: Hey!
LAURA: Nine.
MARISHA: Oh shit.
SAM: Just had to beat a ten.
MATT: You had to beat a ten. You push, and it
turns around and sees the manticore and looks at
you curiously. It has to take a moment to decide
which is more dangerous, the manticore or this
curious serpent. Goes ahead and grabs you by the
chest and begins dragging you with it.
TALIESIN: It makes a grab for her?
MATT: Yeah. It can't choose, so it just grabs
you.
TALIESIN: Blindness. I'm going to blind him before
he grabs her.
MATT: Okay. Well first, it has to try and grapple
you, so go ahead if you want to fight it.
LAURA: Okay, yeah, I'll try to back away.
MATT: All right, so acrobatics check. Natural two,
so make an acrobatics or athletics check to try
and break it.
LAURA: Cool. One.
MATT: Yeah, it grabs you. However, what's the DC
on the spell?
TALIESIN: Constitution 16.
MATT: Natural two again! It was like 20-- two. All
of a sudden, it loses sight and you see its eyes
starting to blink out where once the piercing
yellow snake eyes fade to a snowblind white
(snarling and hissing). Pulls its blade out and
looks around, looking freaked out at the process.
You have to break that grapple; it's still holding
you.
LAURA: Oh, I--
MATT: Make another athletics or acrobatics check.
What're you making?
SAM: Jesus. Oh, nope. Do another.
LAURA: That was a very aggressive roll. Athletics
or acrobatics?
MATT: Yep, your choice.
LAURA: Acrobatics.
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: Ah, god!
LAURA: My dear lord! Fucking seven, but he still
rolled a natural two, right, no?
MATT: Well, no, that was the last time. He rolled
a natural eight, so he's still holding onto you.
He's blind, but he's holding on to you. The
scimitar's out and he's swinging it wildly at
whatever's in the area now that it can't see and
is (gnashing).
TRAVIS: Can I take the sword and take a shot right
at his wrist that's holding her? With the hand
that's holding onto Jester?
MATT: Sure. It's going to be at a major penalty.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: So go ahead and roll.
TRAVIS: 17.
MATT: 17? Okay. Go ahead and roll damage.
TRAVIS: Okay.
SAM: Oh boy, this is going terribly.
TRAVIS: It's going great, we're doing good. Oh,
that's good! That's a 14.
MATT: Okay. I'll say that'll give you advantage on
your next check.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: It doesn't break the hold.
SAM: I will step forward and say to the beast: How
does the Lucidian Ocean say goodbye? It just
waves. And I'll cast Tasha's Hideous Laughter on
it.
MATT: Okay. Natural four.
(cheering)
MATT: Falls to the ground and begins chuckling,
though in the middle of this chaos it is now
blinded and laughing. It releases you.
LAURA: Okay, good.
MATT: The manticore is still roaring. Creatures
are now flooding out of the city to combat this
and you can see some of them are swinging and are
beginning to notice something strange...
LAURA: Ooh, run away!
MARISHA: Run, run, run!
MATT: All right, so you guys are charging towards
the temple. You bypass that one. Now you're
heading up the stairs. Up across the way, there's
one of those crotchety snake people that you saw
patrolling the upper area who has its longbow out
and is currently firing one after another arrow
toward the manticore. It's moved off to the side.
It doesn't seem to immediately notice your
presence as you approach. If you guys are trying
to stealth by without getting its attention, I
need you all to make another stealth check now
that you've engaged in combat.
LAURA: Add ten!
SAM: You'll need it.
MATT: Well, hold on. Pass Without a Trace, is it
concentration?
LAURA: Yes.
MATT: Because you cast Hold Person since then.
LAURA: Oh, Hold Person is a-- you're right.
SAM: Spell management!
LAURA: Sorry, I didn't realize Hold Person was a
concentration.
MATT: It's okay. It is. So straight stealth
checks, guys.
TRAVIS: Yep. 13.
MARISHA: 22.
LIAM: Seven.
SAM: Roll for Yasha. 20!
LAURA: 12.
TALIESIN: 17.
TRAVIS: I have Yasha's character sheet and she
rolled a ten.
MATT: Okay. Hold on.
TALIESIN: I mean.
MARISHA: It was super down the middle.
LIAM: Every week we're like, this is the episode
where we start thinking. This is the one.
MATT: There we go.
TALIESIN: (singing and whistling) Something's out
there.
MATT: Natural 20 on his end.
ALL: Aww!
MARISHA: What do you mean?
MATT: I rolled a natural 20 on my d20.
MARISHA: No, I know what you mean.
MATT: (arrows whizzing) (gnashing)
TRAVIS: How far is this person?
MATT: About 15 feet above you, above the stairs,
just in the middle of the open. Glancing off to
the side, the manticore still drawing most of the
attention, but people are starting to figure out
the weirdness about it.
TRAVIS: Can I use my bonus action to Misty Step up
behind them and I will kick them down the stairs
towards the rest of us?
SAM: Ooh.
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Yes!
MATT: Yes, you can.
MARISHA: Oh my god, yes!
MATT: In a whisp of dark shadow energy you see
Fjord just vanishes from sight and teleports right
behind. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
TRAVIS: Oh god, those used to be really great for
me. 17!
MATT: Natural four. You Sparta this fucker right
off the side of the temple. You watch him tumbling
down the entire length of the side of this temple
before landing on the ground and skidding and
looking unconscious and bleeding out of the side
of his mouth at the base of the temple.
LIAM: Fire Bolt.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: On the dead guy?
LIAM: Yeah. Is he dead or is he unconscious?
MATT: He's unconscious.
LIAM: Oh, yeah. That's a 22.
MATT: Technically, he's prone because he's on the
ground, so it would be at disadvantage. Roll one
more time.
LIAM: It's a 23.
MATT: That hits, roll damage. So with the damage
he took from the fall there. Oh, yeah.
TRAVIS: Oh, that's not me, jesus. I was looking at
Yasha's and it was like, "When did I get Necrotic Shroud?"
LIAM: It's five.
SAM: (exaggerated Arnold Schwarzenegger accent)
Five points of damage.
LIAM: That's the sound it makes. Phoomph.
MATT: So he's burning and not moving. You assume.
LAURA: He's even more unconscious now.
TRAVIS: Let's get the fuck out of here.
LAURA: Keep going.
SAM: Is there an entrance to this tower?
MATT: Oh, you're going stairs up the side. It
levels off towards the top of it, but you don't
know what's at the top there.
MARISHA: Is there anyone following us?
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM: Many people.
TALIESIN: Everybody.
MARISHA: Okay. 15.
MATT: Glancing around, I mean, the manticore's
causing a huge ruckus in the middle of the city
and those that have begun to realize that it's an
illusion are looking around confusedly and at the
moment do not see you, but that time is going to
be very short because you're out in the middle of
the sunlight. The trees aren't above you now. This
is an open clearing in the middle of the jungle
and you're just running up the side of these
temple stairs with the light down upon you from the sky.
LIAM: How tall is this person who's just died?
MATT: Maybe-- from foot to shoulder?
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: About four foot.
LIAM: He's only four feet?
MATT: Yeah. It's like a tiny, hunched--
LIAM: Okay, I take out some iron and I go
(whooshing) and he shrinks to an eighth of that
and I pick him up.
MATT: Wait, the one you just shot?
LIAM: Yeah, I don't want to leave him here.
MATT: He's at the bottom of the temple.
LIAM: Oh, he went down there? I thought he was at
our feet.
MATT: No, you guys have been climbing the temple
and he kicked him down off the side of it. It's all good.
LIAM: I would only do it if he was right where we
were.
MATT: Right. No worries.
LAURA: Let's just keep running.
TRAVIS: Yeah. In! Out of light. Out of the way.
MATT: Okay. So as that idea flashes through your
mind, that would be cool, but it's not going to
work, so you keep rushing and we come back to the
moment as you guys dart up the side of the temple.
Everyone make one more stealth check now that
you've had that brief encounter and teleported
behind to make sure that nobody catches you before
you reach the top portion.
MARISHA: Stealth you said?
MATT: Stealth, yes.
MARISHA: Oh god.
TRAVIS: 12 for me. Natural 18 for Yasha.
MARISHA: 12.
LIAM: 11.
SAM: 20.
LAURA: 19.
TALIESIN: 17.
MATT: That's still a pretty high average and it's
more of an average thing. So a couple of stumbles
coming up the stairs from some of you, but largely
you make it, cresting to the top of the platform.
You get there for a second, take a few breaths and
realize glancing over to the side that people are
still emerging, looking over the side and you can
see dozens of these snake people are emerging from
the buildings and heading towards the sound of
this raging manticore. There are those that are
now scattering from the manticore, trying to
engage them to tell them it's not what they think
it is. There are eyes glancing around and you can
see the sentinels are starting to-- But you guys
are keeping low and out of sight. No one at the
moment seems to notice where you are and the few
that have noticed you you've either taken out or
have lost sight of where you were traveling. So
for the moment, you feel safe. At the top of the
temple, you can see some sort of a worship
terrace. There's torch-bearing statues of snakes
sitting near the corners of each of these five
sides of the temple, similar in shape to the one
that you found, the idol. In fact, at the top of
each of these torches, there's a similar golden
idol, but while the one you have is smooth, each
of these has a carved divot on the inside where
the torch itself is actually burned in. Or where
materials are placed in to burn as a torch when
the night comes or for any ceremonial use it requires.
TRAVIS: The top is open air?
MATT: Right now, it's just an open platform. You
do see in the center of it a heavy stone tablet
about 12-foot by six-foot the rests directly in
the center. You can see metal rings that are
bolted in with metal rivets that hold it on the
sides of the tablet. The stone itself appears to
be stained with a variety of various shades of
stain.
SAM: Like blood?
TALIESIN: Oak, mahogany, rosewood.
TALIESIN and MATT: So much stain.
LAURA: Where are we supposed to go?
TRAVIS: Yeah, we head towards the tablet.
MARISHA: So wait, you said that there are tablets
with rings on the corners of the tablet and splatter--
MATT: There was one stone table about 12-foot by
six-foot and on the sides of it there are rings
that are bolted in and there are stains across the
surface.
TRAVIS: Of the crimson variety?
MATT: Yep.
MARISHA: Yeah, super sacrifice-y.
LIAM: Obviously for killing. With all the reading
I have done, can I ascertain or have a good guess
of what this is used for besides?
MATT: Yeah, you have a good idea.
LIAM: Yeah, I know it's for killing people, but
does it do something? To do something. Summon
things, make a god happy...
TALIESIN: Does it look like a trap door to me?
LIAM: I have read many books.
MATT: Well, make an arcana check and make a
religion check.
TALIESIN: All right.
LIAM: I got a one.
MATT: Okay. You're not entirely certain.
TALIESIN: I got a 12.
LIAM: Not my neighborhood.
MATT: You get the sense that this is for
sacrifices, but you're not entirely certain to
what ends and to what purpose, whether it's just
ceremonial or for a specific purpose.
TALIESIN: Okay. And it doesn't look like it
moves?
SAM: We're still out in the open?
MATT: You're out in the open on the top of this
temple, but you do see, as you're inspecting the
table and looking around, there is a trap door
made of the same color stone that has a handle
built on it that you can pull back.
SAM: Should I check for traps?
LIAM: Yeah. Is it safe?
SAM: For sure. I'll check for traps. 18.
Investigation.
MATT: All right. It looks to not be trapped.
Though it is locked.
SAM: All right, I'll unlock it. That's 28!
MATT: 28. Getting down to this device, you can see
it's an intricate, thick, long key, what would
have probably been that long and have a whole
series of intricately designed cliffs to it to hit
all of the various--
SAM: Tumblers?
MATT: Tumblers, thank you. To get this to open.
However, you manage to get multiple angles and
press and hold, and press and hold with all of
your tools. It takes everything in your bag to get
through it, but you manage to just hit each one
properly and lift, and it pulls open with a
grinding sound.
LAURA: Shut up, Nott! That was very good.
SAM: That was not supposed to work!
LAURA: That was really good.
SAM: That was luck. That was dumb luck.
TALIESIN: Let's get in. We're all going to get in.
Come on.
MATT: You do hear a smattering of hissing and
growling sounds that are getting louder and louder.
LAURA: Get inside of it. (mumbling) Can you
re-lock the door or something?
SAM: Probably not, but I can try.
LAURA: Okay, we'll just shut it and hope they
don't notice that we came up here. Let's go.
MATT: Okay. You all dart inside. At this point, as
you are stepping inside, you see on the opposite
end, rushing up the edge, you see Jamedi go,
"(huffing) Very good," and he jumps inside with
the rest of you.
MARISHA: Where's Avantika?
MATT: "I have not seen her."
MARISHA: Bullshit.
MATT: "I haven't!"
MARISHA: Are you lying?
MATT: Make an insight check.
TALIESIN: I'll join this one, as well.
MARISHA: God fucking bull fucking shit.
TALIESIN: 25.
MARISHA: Nine.
MATT: Hard to read.
TRAVIS: Doesn't matter.
LAURA: "Hard to read." Whispers!
SAM: Hey, how great was New York Comic Con?
TRAVIS: Boy, sure was fun, Sam.
SAM: We met a lot of great Critters--
TRAVIS: We did!
SAM: And thanks for everyone for coming out to the
live show, and we'll be back again next year? I
don't know.
TALIESIN: So I keel over mysteriously dead. Just
kidding! Sorry. No, all right, cool.
MATT: All right. He darts inside, the rest of you
guys are inside. You close it?
LAURA: Yes!
TRAVIS: Yes, we close it, yeah.
TALIESIN: I'm closing, slowly.
MATT: All right. As you are just closing it
gently, you can see shapes coming up over one, and
now a second, side of the temple. There are a few
charging up. All right. It locks from the inside.
The latch locks behind itself.
SAM: I locked it!
TRAVIS: We may not have much time. Darkvision,
what do we see?
MARISHA: Goggles.
MATT: You're now standing in a small, five-foot by
eight-foot chamber. You are all cramped in there,
but there is a spiral staircase that leads down.
TRAVIS: Time to go.
SAM: One at a time.
TRAVIS: You first.
SAM: Why me?
TRAVIS: Check. For. Traps.
LAURA: Whoever I'm standing next to, I grab their
butt.
TALIESIN: Who's rubbing my elbow? It's weird.
SAM: I'll take a big swig of liquor and start
going down, scanning for traps.
MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check.
LAURA: Avantika! Avantika, are you here?
SAM: Oh, that's shit. I only rolled an 11.
MATT: All right. There is a faint noise you hear
that goes, "Do not worry. I was waiting for you up
"top this entire time."
LIAM: I'm casting Mage Armor.
MATT: All right. Mage Armor is on. What'd you
roll?
SAM: 11 for investigation.
MATT: Seems safe.
SAM: Coast is clear! Let's go! (running)
MATT: Okay. Nott's charging down the stairs, the
rest of you follow suit. The chamber beneath has
some sort of faint, fiery light source, and it
opens up below you. As you begin to move downward,
you can see a pentagram-like chamber. Not a
perfect pentagram, but there are five sides to it;
one that's shorter than the rest that gives this
diamond-shape to the interior of the chamber.
There are two walls on the sides, and there are
bits of green growth in the corners. In the
center, there's a raised platform with some sort
of fountain that rests in the middle, and there
are four figures standing around this fountain.
Which is precisely what you notice as Nott, your
foot hits one of these steps that (clicks) gives
out from underneath and the stairs suddenly shift
into a sliding platform.
SAM: Weee!
LIAM: How steep?
MATT: It's about a 45-degree angle.
LIAM: So how fast does the fall feel?
MATT: It's only about ten feet, 15 feet down, and
what would have stopped you to catch a moment, you
all of a sudden (slipping).
LIAM: So it's not that far down?
MATT: It's not going to be a hard fall, but any
sense of stealth you would've had, or any sort of
surprise, is gone, as all of you manage to barely
glide your way to the bottom or stumble on your
ass, sliding to the bottom of this chamber. There
in the darkened, lit interior chamber, three of
these figures standing around this fountain,
holding bowls, glance over their shoulders towards
you and hiss with sharpened snake teeth.
LAURA: Oh, good, this is the bowl drinking party!
We were looking for it, oof.
MATT: Behind the fountain, you see one jet
black-gray humanoid body. It's a little larger
than the others with a giant, extended snake head.
The cobra hood, long and wide on each side. Its
eyes glowing red from the back.
LIAM: I begin casting Slow.
MATT: And we'll get to that next week.
(shrieks of disappointment)
MARISHA: Oh my god!
TRAVIS: Oh, shit! The big black cobra hood, arms
or just the serpentine body?
MATT: It's a slender humanoid body that's tall and
thin, but its body is gray scaled and armor plates
and then, from its shoulders, it extends up into
the hooded cobra head.
TRAVIS: Taller than the other three that were in
the chamber?
MATT: Yeah, it's probably about seven-foot tall,
and the others are about five-and-a-half, six-foot tall.
LIAM: Let's skip and go to the next episode!
MATT: We got a week.
TRAVIS: Don't we have that little box that appears
that's just counting down from ten, nine, eight,
and it's going to automatically skip to the fight
right now, right? We can just hit it.
MARISHA: Yeah!
MATT: We all got shit to do in the morning.
TALIESIN: Oh, yeah, that's so true.
TRAVIS: Yeah, but cobra fight!
MATT: I know. We'll pick it up there next week.
TALIESIN: Tomorrow's a long day.
MATT: I know.
TRAVIS: Good shit, Matt!
MATT: Now, you guys are in the temple. We'll see
where it goes from here. I'm excited.
MARISHA: It's so Indiana Jones! This is so Nathan
Drake!
LAURA: I was like, where are we going to stick the
rubies! Where do we stick their-- I don't know
where to stick the rubies.
MARISHA: The rubies have a purpose, I know it!
LAURA: Look at all these dice that fucked me
tonight!
MATT: (laughing) That's a t-shirt. Well, thank you
guys. We'll pick this up next week. I'm excited.
Thank you, guys, for sticking around with us
tonight. Have a good week, we love you, and is it
Thursday yet? Good night!
[music]